11.002 Policy.


11.002 Policy.


(a)
                   In fulfilling requirements of 
                     10 U.S.C. 3206(a), 10 U.S.C. 3453,
                  41 U.S.C. 3306(a), and 41 U.S.C.3307, agencies shall-

(1)
                         Specify
needs using market research in a manner designed to-

(i)
                               Promote
full and open competition (see part  6),
or maximum practicable competition when using simplified acquisition
procedures, with due regard to the nature of the supplies or services
to be acquired; and

(ii)
                               Only include
restrictive provisions or conditions to the extent necessary to
satisfy the needs of the agency or as authorized by law.

(2)
                         To the maximum
extent practicable, ensure that acquisition officials-

(i)
                               State
requirements with respect to an acquisition of supplies or services
in terms of-

(A)
                                     Functions to be performed;

(B)
                                     Performance
required; or

(C)
                                     Essential
physical characteristics;

(ii)
                               Define
requirements in terms that enable and encourage offerors to supply commercial products or
commercial services or, to the extent that commercial products suitable to
meet the agency’s needs are not available, nondevelopmental items,
in response to the agency solicitations;

(iii)
                               Provide
offerors of commercial
products, commercial services, and nondevelopmental items an
opportunity to compete in any acquisition to fill such requirements;

(iv)
                               Require
prime contractors and subcontractors at all tiers under the agency
contracts to incorporate commercial products,
commercial services, or nondevelopmental items as components
of items supplied to the agency; and

(v)
                               Modify
requirements in appropriate cases to ensure that the requirements
can be met by commercial
products or commercial services or, to the extent that commercial products suitable to
meet the agency’s needs are not available, nondevelopmental items.

(b)
                   The Metric
Conversion Act of 1975, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness
Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 205a, et
seq.), designates the metric system of measurement as the preferred
system of weights and measures for United States trade and commerce,
and it requires that each agency use the metric system of measurement
in its acquisitions, except to the extent that such use is impracticable
or is likely to cause significant inefficiencies or loss of markets to
United States firms. Requiring activities are responsible for establishing
guidance implementing this policy in formulating their requirements
for acquisitions.

(c)
                   To the
extent practicable and consistent with subpart  9.5, potential
offerors should be given an opportunity to comment on agency requirements
or to recommend application and tailoring of requirements documents
and alternative approaches. Requiring agencies should apply specifications,
standards, and related documents initially for guidance only, making
final decisions on the application and tailoring of these documents
as a product of the design and development process. Requiring agencies
should not dictate detailed design solutions prematurely (see 7.101 and 7.105(a)(8)).

(d)


(1)
                        Agencies shall procure sustainable products and services (as defined in 2.101) in accordance with subpart 23.1).
                     

(2) Unless it is not practicable (see 23.104(a)) or an exception or exemption applies (see 23.105 and 23.106, respectively), agencies shall incorporate the use of sustainable products and services when— 

(i)
                               Developing, reviewing, or revising
Federal and military specifications, product descriptions (including
commercial item descriptions) and standards;

(ii)
                               Describing
Government requirements for products and services; and

(iii)
                               Developing
source-selection factors.

(3)
                        The Green Procurement Compilation (GPC) available at 
https://sftool.gov/​greenprocurement
 provides a comprehensive list of sustainable products and services and other related sustainable acquisition guidance. Agencies should—
                     

(i)
                              Consult the GPC when determining which purchasing programs apply to a specific product or service; and
                           

(ii)
                              Incorporate into agency requirements any required standards, specifications, or ecolabels identified in the GPC for a specific product or service.
                           

(e)
                   Some or
all of the performance levels or performance specifications in a
solicitation may be identified as targets rather than as fixed or
minimum requirements.

(f)
                   In accordance
with section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), the
contracting officer shall obtain from the requiring activity the
requirement documents, which must identify—

(1)
                        The needs of
current and future users with disabilities to determine how–

(i)
                              Users with
disabilities will perform the functions supported by the information
and communication technology (ICT);

(ii)
                              The ICT
will be developed, installed, configured and maintained to support
users with disabilities;

(2)
                        The applicable
ICT accessibility standards (see subpart  39.2); and

(3)
                        Any ICT
accessibility standards that cannot be met due to an exception or
an exemption for any component or portion of the product (see 7.105(b)(5)(iv), 39.204, and 39.205).

(g)
                   Unless
the agency Chief Information Officer waives the requirement, when
acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, the requirements
documents must include reference to the appropriate technical capabilities
defined in the USGv6 Profile (NIST Special Publication 500-267)
and the corresponding declarations of conformance defined in the USGv6
Test Program. The applicability of IPv6 to agency networks, infrastructure,
and applications specific to individual acquisitions will be in
accordance with the agency's Enterprise Architecture (see OMB Memorandum
M-05-22 dated August 2, 2005).

(h)
                   Agencies
shall not include in a solicitation a requirement that prohibits
an offeror from permitting its employees to telecommute unless the
contracting officer executes a written determination in accordance
with FAR 7.108(a).

Parent topic: Part 11 - Describing Agency Needs
