15.209 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.


15.209 Solicitation provisions
and contract clauses.

When contracting by negotiation-

(a) The
contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-1, Instructions
to Offerors-Competitive Acquisition, in all competitive solicitations
where the Government intends to award a contract without discussions.

(1) If
the Government intends to make award after discussions with offerors
within the competitive range, the contracting officer shall use
the basic provision with its Alternate I.

(2) If the Government
would be willing to accept alternate proposals, the contracting
officer shall alter the basic clause to add a new paragraph (c)(9)
substantially the same as Alternate II.

(b)


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records-Negotiation (10 U.S.C. 3841,
                        41 U.S.C. 4706, and Audit Requirements in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart F), in solicitations and contracts except those for-

(i) Acquisitions
not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold;

(ii) The acquisition
of utility services at rates not exceeding those established to
apply uniformly to the general public, plus any applicable reasonable
connection charge; or

(iii) The acquisition
of commercial products
or commercial services exempted under 15.403-1.

(2)


(i) When
using funds appropriated or otherwise made available by the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5)-

(A) The
exceptions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) are not applicable;
and

(B) Use the
clause with its Alternate I.

(ii)


(A) In
the case of a bilateral contract modification that will use funds
appropriated or otherwise made available by the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the contracting officer shall specify
applicability of Alternate I to that modification.

(B) In the
case of a task- or delivery-order contract in which not all orders
will use funds appropriated or otherwise made available by the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the contracting officer shall specify
the task or delivery orders to which Alternate I applies.

(3) For cost-reimbursement
contracts with State and local Governments, educational institutions,
and other nonprofit organizations, the contracting officer shall
use the clause with its Alternate II.

(4) When the
head of the agency has waived the examination of records by the
Comptroller General in accordance with 25.1001, use the clause
with its Alternate III.

(c) When issuing
a solicitation for information or planning purposes, the contracting
officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-3, Request for
Information or Solicitation for Planning Purposes, and clearly mark
on the face of the solicitation that it is for information or planning
purposes.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) The contracting
officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals,
in solicitations if facsimile proposals are authorized (see 15.203(d)).

(f) The contracting
officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-6, Place of Performance,
in solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by
the Government.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) The contracting
officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-8, Order of Precedence-Uniform
Contract Format, in solicitations and contracts using the format
at 15.204.

Parent topic: Subpart 15.2 - Solicitation and Receipt of Proposals and Information
