19.203 Relationship among small business programs.


19.203 Relationship among small	business programs.


(a)
General. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) Program (subpart 19.8), HUBZone Program (subpart 19.13), Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Program (subpart 19.14), or the Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program (subpart 19.15).

(b)
At or	below the simplified acquisition threshold. For acquisitions of supplies	or services that have an anticipated dollar value above the micro-purchase	threshold, but at or below the simplified acquisition threshold,	the requirement at 19.502-2(a)	to set aside acquisitions for small business concerns does not preclude	the contracting officer from awarding a contract to a small business	under the 8(a) Program, HUBZone Program, SDVOSB Program, or WOSB	Program.

(c)
Above the simplified acquisition threshold. For acquisitions of supplies or services that have an anticipated dollar value exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold definition at 2.101, the contracting officer shall first consider an acquisition for the small business socioeconomic contracting programs (i.e., 8(a), HUBZone, SDVOSB, or WOSB programs) before considering a small business set-aside (see 19.502-2(b)). However, if a requirement has been accepted by the SBA under the 8(a) Program, it must remain in the 8(a) Program unless the SBA agrees to its release in accordance with 13 CFR parts 124, 126, 127, and 128.
               

(d)
						            In determining	which socioeconomic program to use for an acquisition, the contracting	officer should consider, at a minimum-

(1)
								                Results of	market research that was done to determine if there are socioeconomic	firms capable of satisfying the agency’s requirement; and

(2)
								                Agency	progress in fulfilling its small business goals.

(e)
						            Small business	set-asides have priority over acquisitions using full and open competition.	See requirements for establishing a small business set-aside at	subpart 19.5.

Parent topic: Subpart 19.2 - Policies
