52.222-62 Paid Sick Leave Under Executive Order 13706.


52.222-62 Paid Sick Leave Under
Executive Order 13706.

As prescribed
at 
22.2110
,
insert the following clause:
Paid Sick Leave Under Executive Order 13706
(Jan 2022)

(a)
Definitions.
As used in this clause (in accordance with 29 CFR 13.2)-

Child,
"domestic partner", and "domestic violence" have the meaning given
in 29 CFR 13.2.

Employee–
                     
                        
(1)


(i) Means
any person engaged in performing work on or in connection with a
contract covered by Executive Order (E.O.) 13706; and

(A) Whose
wages under such contract are governed by the Service Contract Labor
Standards statute (41 U.S.C. chapter 67),
the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute (40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter
IV), or the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. chapter 8);

(B) Including
employees who qualify for an exemption from the Fair Labor Standards
Act's minimum wage and overtime provisions;

(C) Regardless
of the contractual relationship alleged to exist between the individual
and the employer; and

(ii) Includes
any person performing work on or in connection with the contract
and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship or training
program registered with the Department of Labor's Employment and
Training Administration, Office of Apprenticeship, or with a State
Apprenticeship Agency recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship.

(2)


(i) An
employee performs "on" a contract if the employee directly performs
the specific services called for by the contract; and

(ii) An employee
performs "in connection with" a contract if the employee's work
activities are necessary to the performance of a contract but are
not the specific services called for by the contract.

Individual related by blood or affinity
whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a
family relationship has the meaning given in 29 CFR 13.2.

Multiemployer
plan means a plan to which more than one employer is required
to contribute and which is maintained pursuant to one or more collective
bargaining agreements between one or more employee organizations
and more than one employer.

Paid
sick leave means compensated absence from employment that is
required by E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13.

Parent, "sexual assault", "spouse",
and "stalking" have the meaning given in 29 CFR 13.2.

United
States means the 50 States and the District of Columbia.

(b) Executive
Order 13706. 

(1) This contract is subject to E.O.
13706 and the regulations issued by the Secretary of Labor in 29 CFR Part 13 pursuant to the E.O.

(2) If this
contract is not performed wholly within the United States, this
clause only applies with respect to that part of the contract that
is performed within the United States.

(c)
Paid
sick leave. The Contractor shall-

(1) Permit each
employee engaged in performing work on or in connection with this
contract to earn not less than 1 hour of paid sick leave for every
30 hours worked;

(2) Allow
accrual and use of paid sick leave as required by E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13;

(3) Comply
with the accrual, use, and other requirements set forth in 29 CFR 13.5 and 13.6, which are
incorporated by reference in this contract;

(4) Provide
paid sick leave to all employees when due free and clear and without
subsequent deduction (except as otherwise provided by 29 CFR 13.24), rebate, or kickback
on any account;

(5) Provide
pay and benefits for paid sick leave used no later than one pay
period following the end of the regular pay period in which the
paid sick leave was taken; and

(6) Be responsible
for the compliance by any subcontractor with the requirements of
E.O. 13706, 29 CFR Part 13, and this clause.

(d) Contractors
may fulfill their obligations under E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13 jointly with other contractors
through a multiemployer plan, or may fulfill their obligations through
an individual fund, plan, or program (see 29
CFR 13.8).

(e)
Withholding.
The Contracting Officer will, upon his or her own action or upon
written request of an authorized representative of the Department
of Labor, withhold or cause to be withheld from the Contractor under
this or any other Federal contract with the same Contractor, so
much of the accrued payments or advances as may be considered necessary
to pay employees the full amount owed to compensate for any violation
of the requirements of E.O. 13706, 29 CFR
Part 13, or this clause, including-

(1) Any pay and/or
benefits denied or lost by reason of the violation;

(2) Other
actual monetary losses sustained as a direct result of the violation;
and

(3) Liquidated
damages.

(f) Payment
suspension/contract termination/contractor debarment. 

(1) In
the event of a failure to comply with E.O. 13706, 29 CFR Part 13, or this clause, the
contracting agency may, on its own action or after authorization
or by direction of the Department of Labor and written notification
to the Contractor take action to cause suspension of any further
payment, advance, or guarantee of funds until such violations have
ceased.

(2) Any failure
to comply with the requirements of this clause may be grounds for
termination for default or cause.

(3) A breach
of the contract clause may be grounds for debarment as a contractor
and subcontractor as provided in 29 CFR 13.52.

(g) The paid
sick leave required by E.O. 13706, 29 CFR
Part 13, and this clause is in addition to the Contractor's
obligations under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and
Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and the Contractor
may not receive credit toward its prevailing wage or fringe benefit
obligations under those Acts for any paid sick leave provided in satisfaction
of the requirements of E.O. 13706 and 29
CFR Part 13.

(h) Nothing
in E.O. 13706 or 29 CFR Part 13 shall
excuse noncompliance with or supersede any applicable Federal or
State law, any applicable law or municipal ordinance, or a collective
bargaining agreement requiring greater paid sick leave or leave rights
than those established under E.O. 13706 and 29
CFR Part 13.

(i) Recordkeeping. 

(1) The
Contractor shall make and maintain, for no less than three (3) years
from the completion of the work on the contract, records containing
the following information for each employee, which the Contractor
shall make available upon request for inspection, copying, and transcription
by authorized representatives of the Administrator of the Wage and
Hour Division of the Department of Labor:

(i) Name, address,
and social security number of each employee.

(ii) The employee's
occupation(s) or classification(s).

(iii) The
rate or rates of wages paid (including all pay and benefits provided).

(iv) The number
of daily and weekly hours worked.

(v) Any deductions
made.

(vi) The total
wages paid (including all pay and benefits provided) each pay period.

(vii) A copy
of notifications to employees of the amount of paid sick leave the
employee has accrued, as required under 29 CFR 13.5(a)(2).

(viii) A copy
of employees' requests to use paid sick leave, if in writing, or,
if not in writing, any other records reflecting such employee requests.

(ix) Dates
and amounts of paid sick leave taken by employees (unless the Contractor's
paid time off policy satisfies the requirements of E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13 as described in 29 CFR 13.5(f)(5), leave shall
be designated in records as paid sick leave pursuant to E.O. 13706).

(x) A copy
of any written responses to employees' requests to use paid sick
leave, including explanations for any denials of such requests,
as required under 29 CFR 13.5(d)(3).

(xi) Any records
reflecting the certification and documentation the Contractor may
require an employee to provide under 29 CFR 13.5(e), including copies
of any certification or documentation provided by an employee.

(xii) Any
other records showing any tracking of or calculations related to
an employee's accrual or use of paid sick leave.

(xiii) The
relevant contract.

(xiv) The
regular pay and benefits provided to an employee for each use of
paid sick leave.

(xv) Any financial
payment made for unused paid sick leave upon a separation from employment
intended, pursuant to 29 CFR 13.5(b)(5), to relieve
the Contractor from the obligation to reinstate such paid sick leave
as otherwise required by 29 CFR 13.5(b)(4).

(2)


(i) If
the Contractor wishes to distinguish between an employee’s covered
and noncovered work, the Contractor shall keep records or other
proof reflecting such distinctions. Only if the Contractor adequately
segregates the employee's time will time spent on noncovered work
be excluded from hours worked counted toward the accrual of paid
sick leave. Similarly, only if the Contractor adequately segregates
the employee's time may the Contractor properly refuse an employee's request
to use paid sick leave on the ground that the employee was scheduled
to perform noncovered work during the time he or she asked to use
paid sick leave.

(ii) If the
Contractor estimates covered hours worked by an employee who performs
work in connection with contracts covered by the E.O. pursuant to
29 CFR 13.5(a)(i)
or (iii), the Contractor shall keep records or other proof of the
verifiable information on which such estimates are reasonably based.
Only if the Contractor relies on an estimate that is reasonable and
based on verifiable information will an employee's time spent in
connection with noncovered work be excluded from hours worked counted
toward the accrual of paid sick leave. If the Contractor estimates
the amount of time an employee spends performing in connection with
contracts covered by the E.O., the Contractor shall permit the employee
to use his or her paid sick leave during any work time for the Contractor.

(3) In the
event the Contractor is not obligated by the Service Contract Labor
Standards statute, the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute,
or the Fair Labor Standards Act to keep records of an employee's
hours worked, such as because the employee is exempt from the Fair
Labor Standards Act's minimum wage and overtime requirements, and
the Contractor chooses to use the assumption permitted by 29 CFR 13.5(a)(1)(iii), the Contractor
is excused from the requirement in paragraph (i)(1)(iv) of this
clause and 29 CFR 13.25(a)(4) to keep
records of the employee's number of daily and weekly hours worked.

(4)


(i) Records
relating to medical histories or domestic violence, sexual assault,
or stalking, created for purposes of E.O. 13706, whether of an employee
or an employee's child, parent, spouse, domestic partner, or other
individual related by blood or affinity whose close association
with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship, shall
be maintained as confidential records in separate files/records
from the usual personnel files.

(ii) If the
confidentiality requirements of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination
Act of 2008 (GINA), section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
and/or the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) apply to records
or documents created to comply with the recordkeeping requirements
in this contract clause, the records and documents shall also be
maintained in compliance with the confidentiality requirements of
the GINA, section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and/or
ADA as described in 29 CFR 1635.9, 41 CFR 60-741.23(d), and 29 CFR 1630.14(c)(1), respectively.

(iii) The
Contractor shall not disclose any documentation used to verify the
need to use 3 or more consecutive days of paid sick leave for the
purposes listed in 29 CFR 13.5(c)(1)(iv) (as described
in 29 CFR 13.5(e)(1)(ii))
and shall maintain confidentiality about any domestic abuse, sexual
assault, or stalking, unless the employee consents or when disclosure is
required by law.

(5) The Contractor
shall permit authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division
to conduct interviews with employees at the worksite during normal
working hours.

(6) Nothing
in this contract clause limits or otherwise modifies the Contractor's
recordkeeping obligations, if any, under the Service Contract Labor
Standards statute, the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute,
the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, E.O. 14026, their
respective implementing regulations, or any other applicable law.

(j) Interference/discrimination. 

(1) The
Contractor shall not in any manner interfere with an employee's
accrual or use of paid sick leave as required by E.O. 13706 or 29 CFR Part 13. Interference includes,
but is not limited to-

(i) Miscalculating the amount of paid
sick leave an employee has accrued;

(ii) Denying
or unreasonably delaying a response to a proper request to use paid
sick leave;

(iii) Discouraging
an employee from using paid sick leave;

(iv) Reducing
an employee's accrued paid sick leave by more than the amount of
such leave used;

(v) Transferring
an employee to work on contracts not covered by the E.O. to prevent
the accrual or use of paid sick leave;

(vi) Disclosing
confidential information contained in certification or other documentation
provided to verify the need to use paid sick leave; or

(vii) Making
the use of paid sick leave contingent on the employee's finding
a replacement worker or the fulfillment of the Contractor's operational
needs.

(2) The Contractor
shall not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against
any employee for–

(i) Using, or attempting to use, paid
sick leave as provided for under E.O. 13706 and 29
CFR Part 13;

(ii) Filing
any complaint, initiating any proceeding, or otherwise asserting
any right or claim under E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR
Part 13;

(iii) Cooperating
in any investigation or testifying in any proceeding under E.O.
13706 and 29 CFR Part 13; or

(iv) Informing
any other person about his or her rights under E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13.

(k)
Notice.
The Contractor shall notify all employees performing work on or
in connection with a contract covered by the E.O. of the paid sick
leave requirements of E.O. 13706, 29 CFR
Part 13, and this clause by posting a notice provided by the
Department of Labor in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite
so it may be readily seen by employees. Contractors that customarily post
notices to employees electronically may post the notice electronically,
provided such electronic posting is displayed prominently on any
website that is maintained by the Contractor, whether external or
internal, and customarily used for notices to employees about terms
and conditions of employment.

(l)
Disputes
concerning labor standards. Disputes related to the application
of E.O. 13706 to this contract shall not be subject to the general
disputes clause of the contract. Such disputes shall be resolved
in accordance with the procedures of the Department of Labor set
forth in 29 CFR Part 13. Disputes within
the meaning of this contract clause include disputes between the
Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency,
the Department of Labor, or the employees or their representatives.

(m)
Subcontracts.
The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (m), in all subcontracts, regardless of dollar value,
that are subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute
or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and are to
be performed in whole or in part in the United States.
(End of clause)

Parent topic: 52.222 [Reserved]
