52.227-1 Authorization and Consent.


52.227-1 Authorization and	Consent.

As prescribed in 
27.201-2(a)(1), insert	the following clause:
Authorization	and Consent (Jun 2020)

(a)
						            The	Government authorizes and consents to all use and manufacture, in	performing this contract or any subcontract at any tier, of any	invention described in and covered by a United States patent-

(1)
								                Embodied	in the structure or composition of any article the delivery of which	is accepted by the Government under this contract; or

(2)
								                Used in	machinery, tools, or methods whose use necessarily results from	compliance by the Contractor or a subcontractor with (i) specifications	or written provisions forming a part of this contract or (ii) specific	written instructions given by the Contracting Officer directing	the manner of performance. the entire liability to the Government	for infringement of a United States patent shall be determined solely	by the provisions of the indemnity clause, if any, included in this	contract or any subcontract hereunder (including any lower-tier	subcontract), and the Government assumes liability for all other	infringement to the extent of the authorization and consent hereinabove	granted.

(b)
						            The Contractor shall include	the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all	subcontracts that are expected to exceed the simplified acquisition	threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101 on the date of subcontract	award. However, omission of this clause from any subcontract, including	those at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined	in FAR 2.101 on the date of subcontract	award, does not affect this authorization and consent.
(End of clause)


Alternate	I 
(Apr 1984). As prescribed in 
27.201-2
(a)(2), substitute	the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the basic clause:
(a) The Government authorizes and consents	to all use and manufacture of any invention described in and covered	by a United States patent in the performance of this contract or	any subcontract at any tier.

Alternate II 
(Apr 1984).	As prescribed in 
27.201-2
(a)(3),	substitute the following paragraph (a) for paragraph (a) of the	basic clause:
(a) The Government authorizes	and consents to all use and manufacture in the performance of any	order at any tier or subcontract at any tier placed under this contract	for communication services and facilities for which rates, charges,	and tariffs are not established by a government regulatory	body, of any invention described in and covered by a United States	patent-
(1) Embodied in the structure	or composition of any article the delivery of which is accepted	by the Government under this contract; or
(2)	Used in machinery, tools, or methods whose use necessarily results	from compliance by the Contractor or a subcontractor with specifications	or written provisions forming a part of this contract or with specific	written instructions given by the Contracting Officer directing	the manner of performance.


Parent topic: 52.227 [Reserved]
