52.225-11 Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements.


52.225-11 Buy American-Construction Materials
         under Trade Agreements.

As prescribed in 
25.1102(c), insert the following
            clause:
 Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade
            Agreements (Nov 2023)

(a)
Definitions. As used in this
                  clause—

Caribbean Basin country
                  construction material means a construction material that—
                     
                        
(1) Is wholly the growth,
                        product, or manufacture of a Caribbean Basin country;
                        or

(2) In the case of a
                        construction material that consists in whole or in part
                        of materials from another country, has been
                        substantially transformed in a Caribbean Basin country
                        into a new and different construction material distinct
                        from the materials from which it was transformed. 

Commercially available
                  off-the-shelf (COTS) item—
                     
                        
(1) Means any item of supply
                        (including construction material) that is–

(i) A commercial product
                              (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of
                              “commercial product” at Federal Acquisition
                              Regulation (FAR) 2.101);

(ii) Sold in substantial
                              quantities in the commercial marketplace; and

(iii) Offered to the
                              Government, under a contract or subcontract at any
                              tier, without modification, in the same form in
                              which it is sold in the commercial marketplace;
                              and

(2) Does not include bulk
                        cargo, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 40102(4), such as
                        agricultural products and petroleum products.

Component means an article,
                  material, or supply incorporated directly into a construction
                  material.

Construction material means an
                  article, material, or supply brought to the construction site
                  by the Contractor or subcontractor for incorporation into the
                  building or work. The term also includes an item brought to
                  the site preassembled from articles, materials, or supplies.
                  However, emergency life safety systems, such as emergency
                  lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are
                  discrete systems incorporated into a public building or work
                  and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated as a
                  single and distinct construction material regardless of when
                  or how the individual parts or components of those systems are
                  delivered to the construction site. Materials purchased
                  directly by the Government are supplies, not construction
                  material.

Cost of components means—
                     
                        
(1) For components purchased by
                        the Contractor, the acquisition cost, including
                        transportation costs to the place of incorporation into
                        the construction material (whether or not such costs are
                        paid to a domestic firm), and any applicable duty
                        (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is
                        issued); or

(2) For components manufactured
                        by the Contractor, all costs associated with the
                        manufacture of the component, including transportation
                        costs as described in paragraph (1) of this definition,
                        plus allocable overhead costs, but excluding profit.
                        Cost of components does not include any costs associated
                        with the manufacture of the construction material.

Critical component means a
                  component that is mined, produced, or manufactured in the
                  United States and deemed critical to the U.S. supply chain.
                  The list of critical components is at FAR 25.105.

Critical item means a domestic
                  construction material or domestic end product that is deemed
                  critical to U.S. supply chain resiliency. The list of critical
                  items is at FAR 25.105.

Designated country means any of
                  the following countries:

(1) A World Trade Organization
                        Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country
                        (Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
                        Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
                        Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong,
                        Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea
                        (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
                        Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New
                        Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
                        Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain,
                        Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United
                        Kingdom);

(2) A Free Trade Agreement
                        (FTA) country (Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Colombia,
                        Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
                        Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco,
                        Nicaragua, Oman, Panama, Peru, or Singapore);

(3) A least developed country
                        (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina
                        Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad,
                        Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti,
                        Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea,
                        Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia,
                        Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal,
                        Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
                        Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan,
                        Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu,
                        Yemen, or Zambia); or

(4) A Caribbean Basin country
                        (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
                        Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Curacao, Dominica,
                        Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St.
                        Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the
                        Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or Trinidad
                        and Tobago).

Designated country construction
                  material means a construction material that is a WTO GPA
                  country construction material, an FTA country construction
                  material, a least developed country construction material, or
                  a Caribbean Basin country construction material.

Domestic construction material
                  means— 
                     
                        
(1) For construction material
                        that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or
                        steel or a combination of both-

(i) An unmanufactured
                              construction material mined or produced in the
                              United States; or

(ii) A construction
                              material manufactured in the United States,
                              if—

(A) The cost of its
                                    components mined, produced, or manufactured
                                    in the United States exceeds 60 percent of
                                    the cost of all its components, except that
                                    the percentage will be 65 percent for items
                                    delivered in calendar years 2024 through
                                    2028 and 75 percent for items delivered
                                    starting in calendar year 2029.

(B) The
                                    construction material is a COTS item; or

(2) For construction material
                        that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
                        or a combination of both, a construction material
                        manufactured in the United States if the cost of foreign
                        iron and steel constitutes less than 5 percent of the
                        cost of all components used in such construction
                        material. The cost of foreign iron and steel includes
                        but is not limited to the cost of foreign iron or steel
                        mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate,
                        or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the
                        manufacture of the construction material and a good
                        faith estimate of the cost of all foreign iron or steel
                        components excluding COTS fasteners. Iron or steel
                        components of unknown origin are treated as foreign. If
                        the construction material contains multiple components,
                        the cost of all the materials used in such construction
                        material is calculated in accordance with the definition
                        of "cost of components".

Fastener means a hardware
                  device that mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects
                  together. Examples of fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets,
                  nails, clips, and screws.

Foreign construction material
                  means a construction material other than a domestic
                  construction material.

Foreign iron and steel means
                  iron or steel products not produced in the United States.
                  Produced in the United States means that all manufacturing
                  processes of the iron or steel must take place in the United
                  States, from the initial melting stage through the application
                  of coatings, except metallurgical processes involving
                  refinement of steel additives. The origin of the elements of
                  the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination of
                  whether it is domestic or foreign.

Free Trade Agreement country
                  construction material means a construction material that-
                     
                        
(1) Is wholly the growth,
                        product, or manufacture of a Free Trade Agreement (FTA)
                        country; or

(2) In the case of a
                        construction material that consists in whole or in part
                        of materials from another country, has been
                        substantially transformed in a FTA country into a new
                        and different construction material distinct from the
                        materials from which it was transformed.

Least developed country
                  construction material means a construction material that-
                     
                        
(1) Is wholly the growth,
                        product, or manufacture of a least developed country;
                        or

(2) In the case of a
                        construction material that consists in whole or in part
                        of materials from another country, has been
                        substantially transformed in a least developed country
                        into a new and different construction material distinct
                        from the materials from which it was transformed.

Predominantly of iron or steel or a
                  combination of both means that the cost of the iron and
                  steel content exceeds 50 percent of the total cost of all its
                  components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of the iron
                  or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire,
                  plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the
                  manufacture of the product and a good faith estimate of the
                  cost of iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners.

Steel means an alloy that
                  includes at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent
                  carbon, and may include other elements.

United States means the 50
                  States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.

WTO GPA country construction
                  material means a construction material that-
                     
                        
(1) Is wholly the growth,
                        product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or

(2) In the case of a
                        construction material that consists in whole or in part
                        of materials from another country, has been
                        substantially transformed in a WTO GPA country into a
                        new and different construction material distinct from
                        the materials from which it was transformed.

(b) Construction materials.

(1) This clause implements 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy
                        American, by providing a preference for domestic
                        construction material. In accordance with 41 U.S.C.1907, the domestic
                        content test of the Buy American statute is waived for
                        construction material that is a COTS item, except that
                        for construction material that consists wholly or
                        predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both,
                        the domestic content test is applied only to the iron
                        and steel content of the construction material,
                        excluding COTS fasteners. (See FAR 12.505(a)(2)). In addition,
                        the Contracting Officer has determined that the WTO GPA
                        and Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) apply to this
                        acquisition. Therefore, the Buy American restrictions
                        are waived for designated country construction
                        materials.

(2) The Contractor shall use
                        only domestic or designated country construction
                        material in performing this contract, except as provided
                        in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this clause.

(3) The requirement in
                        paragraph (b)(2) of this clause does not apply to
                        information technology that is a commercial product or
                        to the construction materials or components listed by
                        the Government as follows:

[Contracting Officer to list
                        applicable excepted materials or indicate
                        "none"]


(4) The Contracting Officer may
                        add other foreign construction material to the list in
                        paragraph (b)(3) of this clause if the Government
                        determines that-

(i) The cost of domestic
                              construction material would be unreasonable.

(A)
For domestic
                                    construction material that is not a critical
                                    item or does not contain critical
                                    components.

(1) The cost of
                                        a particular domestic construction
                                        material subject to the restrictions of
                                        the Buy American statute is unreasonable
                                        when the cost of such material exceeds
                                        the cost of foreign material by more
                                        than 20 percent;

(2) For
                                        construction material that is not a COTS
                                        item and does not consist wholly or
                                        predominantly of iron or steel or a
                                        combination of both, if the cost of a
                                        particular domestic construction
                                        material is determined to be
                                        unreasonable or there is no domestic
                                        offer received, and the low offer is for
                                        foreign construction material that does
                                        not exceed 55 percent domestic content,
                                        the Contracting Officer will treat the
                                        lowest offer of foreign construction
                                        material that is manufactured in the
                                        United States and exceeds 55 percent
                                        domestic content as a domestic offer and
                                        determine whether the cost of that offer
                                        is unreasonable by applying the
                                        evaluation factor listed in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A)(1) of
                                        this clause.

(3) The
                                        procedures in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A)(2) of
                                        this clause will no longer apply as of
                                        January 1, 2030.

(B)
For domestic
                                    construction material that is a critical
                                    item or contains critical
                                    components.

(1) The cost of
                                        a particular domestic construction
                                        material that is a critical item or
                                        contains critical components, subject to
                                        the requirements of the Buy American
                                        statute, is unreasonable when the cost
                                        of such material exceeds the cost of
                                        foreign material by more than 20 percent
                                        plus the additional preference factor
                                        identified for the critical item or
                                        construction material containing
                                        critical components listed at FAR 25.105.

(2) For
                                        construction material that does not
                                        consist wholly or predominantly of iron
                                        or steel or a combination of both, if
                                        the cost of a particular domestic
                                        construction material is determined to
                                        be unreasonable or there is no domestic
                                        offer received, and the low offer is for
                                        foreign construction material that does
                                        not exceed 55 percent domestic content,
                                        the Contracting Officer will treat the
                                        lowest offer of foreign construction
                                        material that is manufactured in the
                                        United States and exceeds 55 percent
                                        domestic content as a domestic offer,
                                        and determine whether the cost of that
                                        offer is unreasonable by applying the
                                        evaluation factor listed in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B)(1) of
                                        this clause.

(3) The
                                        procedures in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B)(2) of
                                        this clause will no longer apply as of
                                        January 1, 2030.

(ii) The application of
                              the restriction of the Buy American Act to a
                              particular construction material would be
                              impracticable or inconsistent with the public
                              interest; or

(iii) The construction
                              material is not mined, produced, or manufactured
                              in the United States in sufficient and reasonably
                              available commercial quantities of a satisfactory
                              quality.

(c) Request for determination of
                  inapplicability of the Buy American statute.

(1)


(i) Any Contractor
                              request to use foreign construction material in
                              accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause
                              shall include adequate information for Government
                              evaluation of the request, including-

(A) A description
                                    of the foreign and domestic construction
                                    materials;

(B) Unit of
                                    measure;

(C) Quantity;

(D) Price;

(E) Time of
                                    delivery or availability;

(F) Location of the
                                    construction project;

(G) Name and
                                    address of the proposed supplier; and

(H) A detailed
                                    justification of the reason for use of
                                    foreign construction materials cited in
                                    accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this
                                    clause.

(ii) A request based on
                              unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable
                              survey of the market and a completed price
                              comparison table in the format in paragraph (d) of
                              this clause.

(iii) The price of
                              construction material shall include all delivery
                              costs to the construction site and any applicable
                              duty (whether or not a duty-free certificate may
                              be issued).

(iv) Any Contractor
                              request for a determination submitted after
                              contract award shall explain why the Contractor
                              could not reasonably foresee the need for such
                              determination and could not have requested the
                              determination before contract award. If the
                              Contractor does not submit a satisfactory
                              explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make
                              a determination.

(2) If the Government
                        determines after contract award that an exception to the
                        Buy American statute applies and the Contracting Officer
                        and the Contractor negotiate adequate consideration, the
                        Contracting Officer will modify the contract to allow
                        use of the foreign construction material. However, when
                        the basis for the exception is the unreasonable price of
                        a domestic construction material, adequate consideration
                        is not less than the differential established in
                        paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this clause.

(3) Unless the Government
                        determines that an exception to the Buy American statute
                        applies, use of foreign construction material is
                        noncompliant with the Buy American statute.

(d)
Data. To permit evaluation of
                  requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on
                  unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following
                  information and any applicable supporting data based on the
                  survey of suppliers:


Foreign and Domestic
                              Construction Materials Price Comparison


Construction Material
                              Description
Unit of Measure
Quantity
Price (Dollars)*



Item1













Foreign construction
                                 material


_______


_______


_______




Domestic construction
                                 material


_______


_______


_______




Item1













Foreign construction
                                 material


_______


_______


_______




Domestic construction
                                 material


_______


_______


_______



[* Include all delivery costs to the
                  construction site and any applicable duty (whether or not a
                  duty-free entry certificate is issued)].
[ List name, address, telephone
                  number, and contact for suppliers surveyed. Attach copy of
                  response; if oral, attach summary. ]
[ Include other applicable supporting
                  information. ]
(End of clause)


Alternate I
(Nov 2023) . As prescribed in 
25.1102
(c)(3), add the
               following definition of "Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction
               material" to paragraph (a) of the basic clause, and substitute
               the following paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) for paragraphs (b)(1)
               and (b)(2) of the basic clause:
"Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction
               material" means a construction material that-
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or
               manufacture of Bahrain, Mexico, or Oman; or
(2) In the case of a construction material
               that consists in whole or in part of materials from another
               country, has been substantially transformed in Bahrain, Mexico,
               or Oman into a new and different construction material distinct
               from the materials from which it was transformed.
(b) Construction materials. (1) This clause
               implements 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American,
               by providing a preference for domestic construction material. In
               accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1907, the domestic content
               test of the Buy American statute is waived for construction
               material that is a COTS item, except that for construction
               material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel
               or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied
               only to the iron and steel content of the construction material,
               excluding COTS fasteners. (See 12.505(a)(2)). In addition, the
               Contracting Officer has determined that the WTO GPA and all the
               Free Trade Agreements except the Bahrain FTA, United
               States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, and the Oman FTA apply to this
               acquisition. Therefore, the Buy American statute restrictions are
               waived for designated country construction materials other than
               Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction materials.
(2) The Contractor shall use only domestic or
               designated country construction material other than Bahraini,
               Mexican, or Omani construction material in performing this
               contract, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of
               this clause.

Alternate II
(Oct 2022). As prescribed in 
25.1102
(c)(4) substitute the
               following sentence for the first sentence of paragraph (1)(ii)(A)
               of the definition of domestic construction material in
               paragraph (a):
(A) The cost of its components mined,
               produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds __ percent of the cost of all its
               components. [ Contracting officer to insert the
               percentage. ]


Parent topic: 52.225 [Reserved]
