52.225-24 Notice of Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials Under Trade Agreements.


52.225-24 Notice of Required
Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American
Statute-Construction Materials Under Trade Agreements.

As prescribed in 
25.1102(e), insert
the following provision:
Notice of Required Use of American
Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction
Materials Under Trade Agreements (Jan 2021)

(a)
Definitions.
"Construction material," "domestic construction material," "foreign
construction material," "manufactured construction material," "Recovery
Act designated country construction material," "steel," and "unmanufactured
construction material," as used in this provision, are defined in
the clause of this solicitation entitled "Required Use of Iron,
Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American statute-Construction
Materials Under Trade Agreements" (Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) clause 52.225-23).

(b)
Requests
for determination of inapplicability. An Offeror requesting
a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5)
(Recovery Act) or the Buy American statute should submit the request
to the Contracting Officer in time to allow a determination before
submission of offers. The Offeror shall
include the information and applicable supporting data required
by paragraphs (c) and (d) of FAR clause 52.225-23 in the request.
If an Offeror has
not requested a determination regarding the inapplicability of section
1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute before submitting
its offer, or has not received a response to a previous request,
the Offeror shall
include the information and supporting data in the offer.

(c) Evaluation
of offers.

(1) If the Government determines that
an exception based on unreasonable cost of domestic construction
material applies in accordance with FAR 25.604, the Government
will evaluate an offer requesting exception to the requirements
of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute
by adding to the offered price of the contract-

(i) 25 percent
of the offered price of the contract, if foreign manufactured construction
material is included in the offer based on an exception for the
unreasonable cost of comparable manufactured domestic construction
material; and

(ii)
                              20 percent of the
cost of foreign unmanufactured construction material included in
the offer based on an exception for the unreasonable cost of comparable
domestic unmanufactured construction material.

(2) If the
solicitation specifies award on the basis of factors in addition
to cost or price, the Contracting Officer will apply the evaluation
factors as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision and use
the evaluated cost or price in determining the offer that represents
the best value to the Government.

(3) Unless
paragraph (c)(2) of this provision applies, if two or more offers
are equal in price, the Contracting Officer will give preference
to an offer that does not include foreign construction material
excepted at the request of the Offeror on
the basis of unreasonable cost.

(d) Alternate
offers.

(1) When an offer includes foreign
construction material, other than Recovery Act designated country
construction material, that is not listed by the Government in this
solicitation in paragraph (b)(3) of FAR clause 52.225-23, the Offeror also may submit
an alternate offer based on use of equivalent domestic or Recovery
Act designated country construction material.

(2) If an
alternate offer is submitted, the Offeror shall submit
a separate Standard Form 1442 for the alternate offer and a separate
cost comparison table prepared in accordance with paragraphs (c)
and (d) of FAR clause 52.225-23 for the
offer that is based on the use of any foreign construction material
for which the Government has not yet determined an exception applies.

(3) If the
Government determines that a particular exception requested in accordance
with paragraph (c) of FAR clause 52.225-23 does not apply,
the Government will evaluate only those offers based on use of the
equivalent domestic or Recovery Act designated country construction
material, and the Offeror shall
be required to furnish such domestic or Recovery Act designated
country construction material. An offer based on use of the foreign
construction material for which an exception was requested-

(i) Will
be rejected as nonresponsive if this acquisition is conducted by
sealed bidding; or

(ii) May be
accepted if revised during negotiations.
(End of Provision)


Alternate
I 
(May 2014). As prescribed in 
25.1102
(e), substitute
the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic provision:
(b) Requests
for determination of inapplicability. An offeror requesting
a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5)
(Recovery Act) or the Buy American statute shall submit the request
with its offer, including the information and applicable supporting
data required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of FAR clause 52.225-23.

Alternate II 
                     (Nov 2023)
. As prescribed in 
25.1102
(e), add the definition of "Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction material" to paragraph (a) and substitute the following paragraph (d) for paragraph (d) of the basic provision:
(d) Alternate offers. (1) When an offer includes foreign construction material, except foreign construction material from a Recovery Act designated country other than Bahrain, Mexico, or Oman that is not listed by the Government in this solicitation in paragraph (b)(3) of FAR clause 52.225-23, the offeror also may submit an alternate offer based on use of equivalent domestic or Recovery Act designated country construction material other than Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction material.
(2) If an alternate offer is submitted,
the offeror shall submit a separate Standard Form 1442 for the alternate
offer and a separate cost comparison table prepared in accordance
with paragraphs (c) and (d) of FAR clause 52.225-23 for the offer
that is based on the use of any foreign construction material for
which the Government has not yet determined an exception applies.
(3) If the Government determines that a particular exception requested in accordance with paragraph (c) of FAR clause 52.225-23 does not apply, the Government will evaluate only those offers based on use of the equivalent domestic or Recovery Act designated country construction material other than Bahraini, Mexican, or Omani construction material. An offer based on use of the foreign construction material for which an exception was requested-
(i)
Will be rejected as nonresponsive if this acquisition is conducted
by sealed bidding; or
(ii) May be accepted
if revised during negotiations.


Parent topic: 52.225 [Reserved]
