52.247-69 Reporting Requirement for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers Regarding Training to Prevent Human Trafficking.


52.247-69 
         Reporting Requirement for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers Regarding Training to Prevent Human Trafficking.

As prescribed in 
47.405(b), insert the following clause:
Reporting Requirement for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers Regarding Training to Prevent Human Trafficking. (Jan 2025) 

(a)
Definitions. As used in this clause—

Human trafficking means “Severe forms of trafficking in persons” or “Sex trafficking.”

Severe forms of trafficking in persons means—
                     
                        
(1) Sex trafficking in which a commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age; or

(2) The recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery.

Sex trafficking means the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of a commercial sex act.

(b)
Annual reporting requirement.


(1) In accordance with 49 U.S.C. 40118(g), the Contractor shall provide the annual report described in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause by October 30th, via email, to the following agencies:

(i) General Services Administration: TraffickingPreventionReport@gsa.gov;

(ii) U.S. Department of Transportation: trafficking@dot.gov;

(iii) Department of Labor: AirCarrier-HTreports@dol.gov;

(iv) Transportation Security Administration: ics-cchtfams@tsa.dhs.gov;

(v) U.S. Customs and Border Protection: CLP@cbp.dhs.gov; and

(vi) DHS Center for Countering Human Trafficking: Info@CCHT.dhs.gov.

(2) The annual report shall include information from the preceding Government fiscal year (October 1 through September 30) regarding—

(i) The number of personnel trained in the detection and reporting of potential human trafficking, including the training required under 49 U.S.C. 44734(a)(4);

(ii) The number of notifications of potential human trafficking victims received from staff or other passengers; and

(iii)


(A)Whether the Contractor notified the Global Human Trafficking Hotline, another comparable hotline, or law enforcement at the relevant airport of the potential human trafficking victim for each such notification of potential human trafficking; and

(B) If the Contractor made a notification, the date the notification was made and the method of notification (e.g., text to Hotline, call to law enforcement).

(c)
Training. In accordance with 49 U.S.C. 44734 and 44738, personnel trained in the detection and reporting of potential human trafficking should include the following:

(1) Flight attendants;

(2) Ticket counter agents;

(3) Gate agents; and

(4) Other air carrier workers whose jobs require regular interaction with passengers.
(End of clause)

Parent topic: 52.247 [Reserved]
