52.247-30 F.o.b. Origin, Contractor’s Facility.


52.247-30 F.o.b. Origin, Contractor’s Facility.

As prescribed in 
47.303-2(c), insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts when the delivery term is f.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility:
F.o.b. Origin, Contractor’s Facility (Feb 2006)


(a)
						            The term "f.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered on board the indicated type of conveyance of the carrier (or of the Government, if specified) at the designated facility, on the named street or highway, in the city, county, and State from which the shipment will be made.

(b)
						            The Contractor shall-

(1)


(i)
										                    Pack and mark the shipment to comply with contract specifications; or

(ii)
										                    In the absence of specifications, prepare the shipment in conformance with carrier requirements to protect the goods and to ensure assessment of the lowest applicable transportation charge;

(2)


(i)
										                    Order specified carrier equipment when requested by the Government; or

(ii)
										                    If not specified, order appropriate carrier equipment not in excess of capacity to accommodate shipment;

(3)
								                Deliver the shipment in good order and condition to the carrier, and load, stow, trim, block, and/or brace carload or truckload shipment (when loaded by the Contractor) on or in the carrier’s conveyance as required by carrier rules and regulations;

(4)
								                Be responsible for any loss of and/or damage to the goods-

(i)
										                    Occurring before delivery to the carrier;

(ii)
										                    Resulting from improper packing and marking; or

(iii)
										                    Resulting from improper loading, stowing, trimming, blocking, and/or bracing of the shipment, if loaded by the Contractor on or in the carrier’s conveyance;

(5)
								                Complete the Government bill of lading supplied by the ordering agency or, when a Government bill of lading is not supplied, prepare a commercial bill of lading or other transportation receipt. The bill of lading shall show-

(i)
										                    A description of the shipment in terms of the governing freight classification or tariff (or Government rate tender) under which lowest freight rates are applicable;

(ii)
										                    The seals affixed to the conveyance with their serial numbers or other identification;

(iii)
										                    Lengths and capacities of cars or trucks ordered and furnished;

(iv)
										                    Other pertinent information required to effect prompt delivery to the consignee, including name, delivery address, postal address and ZIP code of consignee, routing, etc.;

(v)
										                    Special instructions or annotations requested by the ordering agency for bills of lading; e.g.,"This shipment is the property of, and the freight charges paid to the carrier(s) will be reimbursed by, the Government"; and

(vi)
										                    The signature of the carrier’s agent and the date the shipment is received by the carrier; and

(6)
								                Distribute the copies of the bill of lading, or other transportation receipts, as directed by the ordering agency.
(End of clause)

Parent topic: 52.247 [Reserved]
