52.246-26 Reporting Nonconforming Items.


52.246-26 Reporting Nonconforming
Items.

As prescribed in 
46.317
,
insert the following clause

            Reporting Nonconforming Items (Aug 2024)
         

(a)
Definitions. As
used in this clause—

Common item means
an item that has multiple applications versus a single or peculiar
application.

Counterfeit item means
an unlawful or unauthorized reproduction, substitution, or alteration
that has been knowingly mismarked, misidentified, or otherwise misrepresented
to be an authentic, unmodified item from the original manufacturer, or
a source with the express written authority of the original manufacturer
or current design activity, including an authorized aftermarket
manufacturer. Unlawful or unauthorized substitution includes used
items represented as new, or the false identification of grade,
serial number, lot number, date code, or performance characteristics.

Critical item means an item, the failure
of which is likely to result in hazardous or unsafe conditions for
individuals using, maintaining, or depending upon the item; or is
likely to prevent performance of a vital agency mission.

Critical nonconformance means a nonconformance
that is likely to result in hazardous or unsafe conditions for individuals using,
maintaining, or depending upon the supplies or services; or is likely
to prevent performance of a vital agency mission.

Design
activity means an organization, Government or contractor, that
has responsibility for the design and configuration of an item,
including the preparation or maintenance of design documents. Design
activity could be the original organization, or an organization
to which design responsibility has been transferred.

Major nonconformance means a nonconformance,
other than critical, that is likely to result in failure of the
supplies or services, or to materially reduce the usability of the
supplies or services for their intended purpose.

Suspect
counterfeit item means an item for which credible evidence (including
but not limited to, visual inspection or testing) provides reasonable
doubt that the item is authentic.

(b) The Contractor
shall—

(1) Screen
Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP) reports, available
at www.gidep.org, as a part of the Contractor's
inspection system or program for the control of quality, to avoid
the use and delivery of counterfeit or suspect counterfeit items
or delivery of items that contain a major or critical nonconformance.
This requirement does not apply if the Contractor is a foreign corporation
or partnership that does not have an office, place of business,
or fiscal paying agent in the United States;

(2) Provide
written notification to the Contracting Officer within 60 days of
becoming aware or having reason to suspect, such as through inspection,
testing, record review, or notification from another source (e.g.,
seller, customer, third party) that any end item, component, subassembly,
part, or material contained in supplies purchased by the Contractor for
delivery to, or for, the Government is counterfeit or suspect counterfeit;

(3) Retain
counterfeit or suspect counterfeit items in its possession at the
time of discovery until disposition instructions have been provided
by the Contracting Officer; and

(4) Except
as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, submit a report to
GIDEP at www.gidep.org within 60 days of becoming
aware or having reason to suspect, such as through inspection, testing,
record review, or notification from another source (e.g.,
seller, customer, third party) that an item purchased by the Contractor
for delivery to, or for, the Government is–

(i) A counterfeit
or suspect counterfeit item; or

(ii) A common
item that has a major or critical nonconformance.

(c) The Contractor
shall not submit a report as required by paragraph (b)(4) of this
clause, if—

(1) The
Contractor is a foreign corporation or partnership that does not
have an office, place of business, or fiscal paying agent in the
United States;

(2) The Contractor
is aware that the counterfeit, suspect counterfeit, or nonconforming
item is the subject of an on-going criminal investigation, unless
the report is approved by the cognizant law-enforcement agency;
or

(3) For nonconforming
items other than counterfeit or suspect counterfeit items, it can
be confirmed that the organization where the defect was generated
(e.g., original component manufacturer, original equipment
manufacturer, aftermarket manufacturer, or distributor that alters
item properties or configuration) has not released the item to more
than one customer.

(d) Reports
submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause shall
not include—

(1) Trade
secrets or confidential commercial or financial information protected
under the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905); or

(2) Any other
information prohibited from disclosure by statute or regulation.

(e) Additional guidance on the use of GIDEP is provided at  https://www.gidep.org/login?returnUrl=%2Fdashboard. 

(f) If this
is a contract with the Department of Defense, as provided in paragraph
(c)(5) of section 818 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81), the Contractor or subcontractor
that provides a written report or notification under this clause
that the end item, component, part, or material contained electronic
parts (i.e., an integrated circuit, a discrete electronic
component (including, but not limited to, a transistor, capacitor,
resistor, or diode), or a circuit assembly)) that are counterfeit
electronic parts or suspect counterfeit electronic parts shall not
be subject to civil liability on the basis of such reporting, provided
that the Contractor or any subcontractor made a reasonable effort to
determine that the report was factual.

(g) Subcontracts.

(1) Except
as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this clause, the Contractor shall
insert this clause, including this paragraph (g), in subcontracts
that are for–

(i) Items
subject to higher-level quality standards in accordance with the
clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 
                              52.246-11,
Higher-Level Contract Quality Requirement;

(ii) Items
that the Contractor determines to be critical items for which use
of the clause is appropriate;

(iii) Electronic
parts or end items, components, parts, or materials containing electronic
parts, whether or not covered in paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (ii) of
this clause, if the subcontract exceeds the simplified acquisition
threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101 on
the date of subcontract award,and this contract is by, or for, the
Department of Defense (as required by paragraph (c)(4) of section
818 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub.
L. 112-81)); or

(iv) For the
acquisition of services, if the subcontractor will furnish, as part
of the service, any items that meet the criteria specified in paragraphs
(g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(iii) of this clause.

(2) The Contractor
shall not insert the clause in subcontracts for–

(i)
                              Commercial products and commercial
services; or

(ii) Medical
devices that are subject to the Food and Drug Administration reporting
requirements at 21 CFR 803.

(3) The Contractor
shall not alter the clause other than to identify the appropriate
parties.
(End of clause)

Parent topic: 52.246 [Reserved]
