52.219-6 Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside.


52.219-6 Notice of Total Small
Business Set-Aside.

As prescribed
in 
19.507(c),
insert the following clause:
Notice of Total Small
Business Set-Aside (Nov 2020)

(a)
Definition. Small
business concern, as used in this clause—

(1) Means a concern,
including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated,
not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on
Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the
size standards in this solicitation.

(2)
Affiliates,
as used in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause, means business concerns,
one of whom directly or indirectly controls or has the power to
control the others, or a third party or parties control or have
the power to control the others. In determining whether affiliation
exists, consideration is given to all appropriate factors including
common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships.
SBA determines affiliation based on the factors set forth at 13 CFR
121.103.

(b)
Applicability.
This clause applies only to-

(1) Contracts
that have been totally set aside for small business concerns; and

(2) Orders
set aside for small business concerns under multiple-award contracts
as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F).

(c) General.

(1) Offers
are solicited only from small business concerns. Offers received
from concerns that are not small business concerns shall be considered
nonresponsive and will be rejected.

(2) Any award
resulting from this solicitation will be made to a small business
concern.
(End of clause)


Alternate I 
(Mar 2020)
               . As prescribed in 
19.507
(c), substitute
the following paragraph (c) for paragraph (c) of the basic clause:
(c) General.(1) Offers are solicited
only from small business concerns and Federal Prison Industries,
Inc. (FPI). Offers received from concerns that are not small business
concerns or FPI shall be considered nonresponsive and will be rejected.
(2) Any award resulting from this solicitation
will be made to either a small business concern or FPI.


Parent topic: 52.219 [Reserved]
