32.606 Debt collection. (a) (a) If the contractor has not liquidated the debt within 30 days of the date due or requested installment payments or deferment of collection, the payment office shall initiate withholding of principal, interest, penalties, and administrative charges. In the event the contract is assigned under the Assignment of Claims Act of 1940 (31 U.S .C. 3727 and 41U.S .C. 6305), the rights of the assignee will be scrupulously respected and withholding of payments shall be consistent with those rights. For additional information on assignment of claims, see subpart  32.8. (b) (b) As provided for in the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S .C. 3711(g)(1)), payment offices are required to transfer any debt that is delinquent more than 180 days to the Department of Treasury for collection. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall periodically follow up with the payment office to determine whether the debt has been collected and credited to the correct appropriation(s).
19.816 Exiting the 8(a) program. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, when a contractor exits the 8(a) program, it is no longer eligible to receive new 8(a) contracts. However, the contractor remains under contractual obligation to complete existing contracts, and any priced options that may be exercised. (b) (b) If an 8(a) contractor is suspended from the program (see 13 CFR 124.305), it may not receive any new 8(a) contracts unless the head of the contracting agency makes a determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to issue the award and SBA adopts that determination. (c) (c) A contractor that has completed its term of participation in the 8(a) program may be awarded a competitive 8(a) contract if it was an 8(a) participant eligible for award of the contract on the initial date specified for receipt of offers contained in the solicitation, and if the contractor continues to meet all other applicable eligibility criteria (see 13 CFR 124.507(d)). (d) (d) SBA's regulations on exiting the 8(a) program are found at 13 CFR 124.301 through 124.305, and 13 CFR 124.507(d).
42.103 Contract audit services directory. (a) (a) DCAA maintains and distributes the Directory of Federal Contract Audit Offices. The directory identifies cognizant audit offices and the contractors over which they have cognizance. Changes to audit cognizance shall be provided to DCAA so that the directory can be updated. (b) (b) Agencies may obtain a copy of the directory or information concerning cognizant audit offices by contacting the-
24.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
44.305-2 Notification. (a) (a) The notification granting system approval shall include- (b) (b) In exceptional circumstances, consent to certain subcontracts or classes of subcontracts may be required even though the contractor’s purchasing system has been approved. The system approval notification shall identify the class or classes of subcontracts requiring consent. Reasons for selecting the subcontracts include the fact that a CPSR or continuing surveillance has revealed sufficient weaknesses in a particular area of subcontracting to warrant special attention by the ACO. (c) (c) When recommendations are made for improvement of an approved system, the contractor shall be requested to reply within 15 days with a position regarding the recommendations.
36.301 Use of two-phase design-build selection procedures. (a) (a) During formal or informal acquisition planning (see part  7), if considering the use of two-phase design-build selection procedures, the contracting officer shall conduct the evaluation in paragraph (b) of this section. (b) (b) The two-phase design-build selection procedures shall be used when the contracting officer determines that this method is appropriate, based on the following:
52.228-16 Performance and Payment Bonds-Other Than Construction. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) The Contractor shall furnish a performance bond (Standard Form 1418) for the protection of the Government in an amount equal to _______ percent of the original contract price and a payment bond Standard Form 1416) in an amount equal to ______ percent of the original contract price. (c) (c) The Contractor shall furnish all executed bonds, including any necessary reinsurance agreements, to the Contracting Officer, within ________ days, but in any event, before starting work. (d) (d) The Government may require additional performance and payment bond protection if the contract price is increased. The Government may secure the additional protection by directing the Contractor to increase the penal amount of the existing bonds or to obtain additional bonds. (e) (e) The bonds shall be in the form of firm commitment, supported by corporate sureties whose names appear on the list contained in Treasury Department Circular 570, individual sureties, or by other acceptable security such as postal money order, certified check, cashier's check, irrevocable letter of credit, or, in accordance with Treasury Department regulations, certain bonds or notes of the United States. Treasury Circular 570 is published in the Federal Register, or may be obtained from the:
1.201-2 FAR Secretariat. (a) (a) The General Services Administration is responsible for establishing and operating the FAR Secretariat to publish and distribute the FAR through the Code of Federal Regulations system (including a separate online edition with periodic updates). (b) (b) Additionally, the FAR Secretariat shall provide the two councils with centralized services for-
46.404 Government contract quality assurance for acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. (a) (a) In determining the type and extent of Government contract quality assurance to be required for contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer shall consider the criticality of application of the supplies or services, the amount of possible losses, and the likelihood of uncontested replacement of defective work (see 46.202-2). (b) (b) When the conditions in 46.202-2(b) apply, the following policies shall govern:
52.216-23 Execution and Commencement of Work. No subsections found.
13.103 Use of standing price quotations. (a) (a) The pricing information is current; and (b) (b) The Government obtains the benefit of maximum discounts before award.
52.214-13 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.223-1 Biobased Product Certification. No subsections found.
Subpart 8.7 - Acquisition from Nonprofit Agencies Employing People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled No subsections found.
52.232-3 Payments under Personal Services Contracts. (a) (a) A per diem rate in lieu of subsistence for each day the Contractor is in a travel status away from home or regular place of employment in accordance with Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR 101-7) as authorized in appropriate Travel Orders; and (b) (b) Any other transportation expenses if provided for in the Schedule.
19.704 Subcontracting plan requirements. (a) (a) Each subcontracting plan required under 19.301-2(e) and 19.702(a)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) shall include- (b) (b) Contractors may establish, on a plant or division-wide basis, a master plan (see 19.701) that contains all the elements required by the clause at 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, except goals. Master plans shall be effective for a 3-year period after approval by the contracting officer; however, it is incumbent upon contractors to maintain and update master plans. Changes required to update master plans are not effective until approved by the contracting officer. A master plan, when incorporated in an individual plan, shall apply to that contract throughout the life of the contract. (c) (c) For multiyear contracts or contracts containing options, the cumulative value of the basic contract and all options is considered in determining whether a subcontracting plan is necessary. If a subcontracting plan is necessary and the offeror is submitting an individual subcontracting plan, the individual subcontracting plan shall contain all the elements required by paragraph (a) of this section and shall contain separate statements and goals based on total subcontract dollars for the basic contract and for each option. (d) (d) A commercial plan (as defined in 19.701) is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors furnishing commercial products and commercial services. The subcontracting goals established for a commercial plan shall include all indirect costs with the exception of those such as the following: Employee salaries and benefits; payments for petty cash; depreciation; interest; income taxes; property taxes; lease payments; bank fees; fines, claims, and dues; original equipment manufacturer relationships during warranty periods (negotiated up front with the product); utilities and other services purchased from a municipality or an entity solely authorized by the municipality to provide those services in a particular geographical region; and philanthropic contributions. Once a contractor's commercial plan has been approved, the Government shall not require another subcontracting plan from the same contractor while the plan remains in effect, as long as the product or service being provided by the contractor continues to meet the definition of a commercial product or commercial service. The contractor shall—
4.2103 Procedures. (a) (a) Representations. (b) (b) Reporting. If a contractor provides a report pursuant to paragraph (d) of the clause at 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment, follow agency procedures.
Subpart 11.5 - Liquidated Damages No subsections found.
11.702 Construction contracts. No subsections found.
47.207-7 Liability and insurance. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall specify- (b) (b) When the contractor’s liability for loss of and/or damage to the freight being transported is not specified, the usual measure of liability as prescribed in section 11706 of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U.S.C. 11706) applies. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-21, Contractor Liability for Personal Injury and/or Property Damage. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-22, Contractor Liability for Loss of and/or Damage to Freight other than Household Goods, in solicitations and contracts for the transportation of freight other than household goods. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-23, Contractor Liability for Loss of and/or Damage to Household Goods, in solicitations and contracts for the transportation of household goods, including the rate per pound appropriate to the situation. (f) (f) When freight is not shipped under rates subject to released or declared value, see 28.313(a) and the clause at 52.228-9, Cargo Insurance. (g) (g) When the contracting officer determines that vehicular liability and/or general public liability insurance required by law are not sufficient for a contract, see 28.313(b) and the clause at 52.228-10, Vehicular and General Public Liability Insurance.
3.909 Prohibition on providing funds to an entity that requires certain internal confidentiality agreements or statements. No subsections found.
Subpart 33.1 - Protests No subsections found.
Subpart 22.3 - Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act No subsections found.
49.108-2 Prime contractor’s rights and obligations. (a) (a) Termination for convenience clauses provide that after receipt of a termination notice the prime contractor shall, unless directed otherwise by the TCO, terminate all subcontracts to the extent that they relate to the performance of prime work terminated. Therefore, prime contractors should include a termination clause in their subcontracts for their own protection. Suggestions regarding use of subcontract termination clauses are in subpart  49.5. (b) (b) The failure of a prime contractor to include an appropriate termination clause in any subcontract, or to exercise the clause rights, shall not- (c) (c) In any case, the reasonableness of the prime contractor’s settlement with the subcontractor should normally be measured by the aggregate amount due under paragraph (f) of the subcontract termination clause suggested in 49.502(e). The TCO shall allow reimbursement in excess of that amount only in unusual cases and then only to the extent that the terms of the subcontract did not unreasonably increase the rights of the subcontractor.
15.205 Issuing solicitations. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall issue solicitations to potential sources in accordance with the policies and procedures in 5.102, 19.202-4, and part  6. (b) (b) A master solicitation, as described in 14.203-3, may also be used for negotiated acquisitions.
4.605 Procedures. (a) (a) Procurement Instrument Identifier (PIID). Agencies shall have in place a process that ensures that each PIID reported to FPDS is unique Governmentwide, for all solicitations, contracts, blanket purchase agreements, basic agreements, basic ordering agreements, or orders in accordance with 4.1601 to 4.1603, and will remain so for at least 20 years from the date of contract award. Other pertinent PIID instructions for FPDS reporting can be found at https://www.fpds.gov. (b) (b) Unique entity identifier. The contracting officer shall identify and report a unique entity identifier for the successful offeror on a contract action. The unique entity identifier shall correspond to the successful offeror's name and address as stated in the offer and resultant contract, and as registered in the System for Award Management in accordance with the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management. The contracting officer shall ask the offeror to provide its unique entity identifier by using either the provision at 52.204-6, Unique Entity Identifier, the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management, or the provision at 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (For a discussion of the Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code, which is a different identifier, see subpart  4.18.) (c) (c) Generic entity identifier. (d) (d) American Recovery and Reinvestment Act actions. The contracting officer, when entering data in FPDS, shall use the instructions at https://www.fpds.gov to identify any action funded in whole or in part by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5). (e) (e) Office codes. Agencies shall by March 31, 2016—
14.408-1 General. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall make a contract award (1) by written or electronic notice, (2) within the time for acceptance specified in the bid or an extension (see 14.404-1(d)), and (3) to that responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the invitation, will be most advantageous to the Government, considering only price and the price-related factors (see 14.201-8) included in the invitation. Award shall not be made until all required approvals have been obtained and the award otherwise conforms with 14.103-2. (b) (b) If less than three bids have been received, the contracting officer shall examine the situation to ascertain the reasons for the small number of responses. Award shall be made notwithstanding the limited number of bids. However, the contracting officer shall initiate, if appropriate, corrective action to increase competition in future solicitations for the same or similar items, and include a notation of such action in the records of the invitation for bids (see 14.204). (c) (c) (d) (d)
52.219-2 Equal Low Bids. (a) (a) This provision applies to small business concerns only. (b) (b) The bidder’s status as a labor surplus area (LSA) concern may affect entitlement to award in case of tie bids. If the bidder wishes to be considered for this priority, the bidder must identify, in the following space, the LSA in which the costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by the bidder or the first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price. (c) (c) Failure to identify the labor surplus areas as specified in paragraph (b) of this provision will preclude the bidder from receiving priority consideration. If the bidder is awarded a contract as a result of receiving priority consideration under this provision and would not have otherwise received award, the bidder shall perform the contract or cause the contract to be performed in accordance with the obligations of an LSA concern.
Subpart 47.2 - Contracts for Transportation or for Transportation-Related Services No subsections found.
52.225-16 [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.204-2 Certified or cashier’s checks, bank drafts, money orders, or currency. No subsections found.
32.502-2 Contract finance office clearance. (a) (a) Providing a progress payment rate higher than the customary rate (see 32.501-1). (b) (b) Deviating from the progress payments terms prescribed in this part. (c) (c) Providing progress payments to a contractor-
52.247-66 Returnable Cylinders. (a) (a) Cylinder, referred to in this clause, is a pressure vessel designed for pressures higher than 40 psia and having a circular cross section excluding a portable tank, multi-tank car tank, cargo tank or tank car. (b) (b) Returnable cylinders shall remain the Contractor’s property but shall be loaned without charge to the Government for a period of ____ days [Contracting Officer shall insert number of days] (hereafter referred to as loan period) following the day of delivery to the f.o.b. point specified in the contract. Any cylinder not returned within the loan period shall be charged a daily rental beginning with the firstday after the loan period expires, to and including the day the cylinders are delivered to the Contractor (if the original delivery was f.o.b. origin) or are delivered or made available for delivery to the Contractor’s designated carrier (if the original delivery was f.o.b. destination). The Government shall pay the Contractor a rental of $____________ [Contracting Officer shall insert dollar amount for rental, after evaluation of offers] per cylinder, perday, computed separately for cylinders by type, size, and capacity and for each point of delivery named in the contract. No rental shall accrue to the Contractor in excess of replacement value per cylinder specified in paragraph (c) of this clause. (c) (c) For each cylinder lost or damaged beyond repair while in the Government’s possession, the Government shall pay to the Contractor the replacement value, less the allocable rental paid for that cylinder as follows: (d) (d) If any lost cylinder is located within ___________ [Contracting Officer shall insert number of days]  calendar days after payment by the Government, it may be returned to the Contractor by the Government, and the Contractor shall pay to the Government an amount equal to the replacement value, less rental computed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this clause, beginning at the expiration of the loan period specified in paragraph (b) of this clause, and continuing to the date on which the cylinder was delivered to the Contractor.
1.404 Class deviations. (a) (a) For civilian agencies except NASA, class deviations may be authorized by agency heads or their designees, unless 1.405(e) is applicable. Delegation of this authority shall not be made below the head of a contracting activity. Authorization of class deviations by agency officials is subject to the following limitations: (b) (b) For DoD, class deviations shall be controlled, processed, and approved in accordance with the Defense FAR Supplement. (c) (c) For NASA, class deviations shall be controlled and approved by the Assistant Administrator for Procurement. Deviations shall be processed in accordance with agency regulations.
45.503 Support property administrator findings. No subsections found.
36.516 Quantity surveys. No subsections found.
9.106-4 Reports. (a) (a) The surveying activity shall complete the applicable parts of SF 1403, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor (General); SF 1404, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Technical; SF 1405, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Production; SF 1406, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Quality Assurance; SF 1407, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Financial Capability; and SF 1408, Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Accounting System; and provide a narrative discussion sufficient to support both the evaluation ratings and the recommendations. (b) (b) When the contractor surveyed is a small business that has received preferential treatment on an ongoing contract under Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637) or has received a Certificate of Competency during the last 12 months, the surveying activity shall consult the appropriate Small Business Administration field office before making an affirmative recommendation regarding the contractor’s responsibility or nonresponsibility. (c) (c) When a preaward survey discloses previous unsatisfactory performance, the surveying activity shall specify the extent to which the prospective contractor plans, or has taken, corrective action. Lack of evidence that past failure to meet contractual requirements was the prospective contractor’s fault does not necessarily indicate satisfactory performance. The narrative shall report any persistent pattern of need for costly and burdensome Government assistance (e.g., engineering, inspection, or testing) provided in the Government’s interest but not contractually required. (d) (d) When the surveying activity possesses information that supports a recommendation of complete award without an on-site survey and no special areas for investigation have been requested, the surveying activity may provide a short-form preaward survey report. The short-form report shall consist solely of the Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor (General), SF 1403. Sections III and IV of this form shall be completed and block21 shall be checked to show that the report is a short-form preaward report.
9.402 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies shall solicit offers from, award contracts to, and consent to subcontracts with responsible contractors only. Debarment and suspension are discretionary actions that, taken in accordance with this subpart, are appropriate means to effectuate this policy. (b) (b) The serious nature of debarment and suspension requires that these remedies be imposed only in the public interest for the Government’s protection and not for purposes of punishment. Agencies shall impose debarment or suspension to protect the Government’s interest and only for the causes and in accordance with the procedures in this subpart. (c) (c) Agencies are encouraged to establish methods and procedures for coordinating their debarment or suspension actions. (d) (d) When more than one agency has an interest in the debarment or suspension of a contractor, the Interagency Suspension and Debarment Committee, established under Executive Order 12549, and authorized by section 873 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Pub. L. 110-417) (31 U.S.C.6101, note), shall resolve the lead agency issue and coordinate such resolution among all interested agencies prior to the initiation of any suspension, debarment, or related administrative action by any agency. (e) (e) Agencies shall establish appropriate procedures to implement the policies and procedures of this subpart.
52.219-13 Notice of Set-Aside of Orders. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may set aside orders for the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3). (b) (b) The Contracting Officer will give notice of the order or orders, if any, to be set aside for small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3) and the applicable small business program. This notice, and its restrictions, will apply only to the specific orders that have been set aside for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3).
31.205-30 Patent costs. (a) (a) The following patent costs are allowable to the extent that they are incurred as requirements of a Government contract (but see 31.205-33): (b) (b) General counseling services relating to patent matters, such as advice on patent laws, regulations, clauses, and employee agreements, are allowable (but see 31.205-33). (c) (c) Other than those for general counseling services, patent costs not required by the contract are unallowable. (See also 31.205-37.)
23.501 Policy. (a) (a)Represent whether they publicly disclose greenhouse gas emissions; (b) (b)Represent whether they publicly disclose a quantitative greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal; and (c) (c)Provide the website for any such disclosures.
32.1009 Title. (a) (a) Since the clause at 52.232-32, Performance-Based Payments, gives the Government title to the property described in paragraph (f) of the clause, the contracting officer shall ensure that the Government title is not compromised by other encumbrances. Ordinarily, the contracting officer, in the absence of reason to believe otherwise, may rely upon the contractor’s certification contained in the payment request. (b) (b) If the contracting officer becomes aware of any arrangement or condition that would impair the Government’s title to the property affected by the Performance-Based Payments clause, the contracting officer shall require additional protective provisions. (c) (c) The existence of any such encumbrance is a violation of the contractor’s obligations under the contract, and the contracting officer may, if necessary, suspend or reduce payments under the terms of the Performance-Based Payments clause covering failure to comply with a material requirement of the contract. In addition, if the contractor fails to disclose an existing encumbrance in the certification, the contracting officer should consult with legal counsel concerning possible violation of 31 U.S.C.3729, the False Claims Act.
Subpart 1.2 - Administration No subsections found.
31.701 Purpose. No subsections found.
14.503 Procedures. No subsections found.
49.002 Applicability. (a) (a) (b) (b) Contractors shall use this part, unless inappropriate, to settle subcontracts terminated as a result of modification of prime contracts. The contracting officer shall use this part as a guide in evaluating settlements of subcontracts terminated for the convenience of a contractor whenever the settlement will be the basis of a proposal for reimbursement from the Government under a cost-reimbursement contract. (c) (c) The contracting officer may use this part in determining an equitable adjustment resulting from a modification under the Changes clause of any contract, except cost-reimbursement contracts. (d) (d) When action to be taken or authority to be exercised under this part depends upon the "amount" of the settlement proposal, that amount shall be determined by deducting from the gross settlement proposed the amounts payable for completed articles or work at the contract price and amounts for the settlement of subcontractor settlement proposals. Credits for retention or other disposal of termination inventory and amounts for advance or partial payments shall not be deducted.
53.204 Administrative matters. No subsections found.
16.302 Cost contracts. (a) (a) Description. A cost contract is a cost-reimbursement contract in which the contractor receives no fee. (b) (b) Application. A cost contract may be appropriate for research and development work, particularly with nonprofit educational institutions or other nonprofit organizations. (c) (c) Limitations. See 16.301-3.
14.202-2 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.222-36 Equal Opportunity	for Workers with Disabilities. (a) (a) Equal	opportunity clause. The Contractor shall abide by the requirements	of the equal opportunity clause at 41 CFR 60-741.5(a),	as of March 24, 2014. This clause prohibits discrimination against	qualified individuals on the basis of disability, and requires affirmative	action by the Contractor to employ and advance in employment qualified	individuals with disabilities. (b) (b) Subcontracts.	The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause in every subcontract	or purchase order in excess of the	threshold specified in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 22.1408(a)	on the date of subcontract award, unless exempted by rules,	regulations, or orders of the Secretary, so that such provisions	will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The Contractor	shall act as specified by the Director, Office of Federal Contract	Compliance Programs of the U.S. Department of Labor, to enforce	the terms, including action for noncompliance. Such necessary changes	in language may be made as shall be appropriate to identify properly	the parties and their undertakings.
52.246-16 Responsibility for Supplies. (a) (a) Titleto supplies furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon formal acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession, unless the contract specifically provides for earlier passage of title. (b) (b) Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss of or damage to supplies shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon- (c) (c) Paragraph (b) of this clause shall not apply to supplies that so fail to conform to contract requirements as to give a right of rejection. The risk of loss of or damage to such nonconforming supplies remains with the Contractor until cure or acceptance. After cure or acceptance, paragraph (b) of this clause shall apply. (d) (d) Under paragraph (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not be liable for loss of or damage to supplies caused by the negligence of officers, agents, or employees of the Government acting within the scope of their employment.
25.607 Noncompliance. (a) (a) Review allegations of violations of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or Buy American statute; (b) (b) Unless fraud is suspected, notify the contractor of the apparent unauthorized use of foreign construction material and request a reply, to include proposed corrective action; and (c) (c) If the review reveals that a contractor or subcontractor has used foreign construction material without authorization, take appropriate action, including one or more of the following:
22.1800 Scope. No subsections found.
53.239 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Part 43 - Contract Modifications No subsections found.
47.302 Place of delivery-f.o.b. point. (a) (a) The policies and procedures in 47.304-1, -2, and -3 govern the transportation of supplies from sources in the Contiguous United States (CONUS), except when identifiable costs, nature of the supplies (security, safety, or value), delivery requirements (premium modes of transport, escorts, transit arrangements, and tentative conditions), or other advantages, limitations, or requirements dictate otherwise. The policies and procedures in 47.304-4 govern the transportation of supplies from sources outside CONUS. (b) (b) Generally, the contracting officer shall solicit offers, and award contracts, with delivery terms on the basis prescribed in 47.304. The contracting officer shall document the contract file (see 4.801) with justifications for solicitations that do not specify delivery on the basis prescribed in 47.304. (c) (c)
Subchapter F - Special Categories of Contracting No subsections found.
9.407-4 Period of suspension. (a) (a) Suspension shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation and any ensuing legal proceedings, unless sooner terminated by the suspending and debarring official or as provided in this section. (b) (b) If legal proceedings are not initiated within 12 months after the date of the suspension notice, the suspension shall be terminated unless an office of a U.S. Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Attorney, or other responsible prosecuting official requests its extension, in which case it may be extended for an additional 6 months. In no event may a suspension extend beyond 18 months, unless legal proceedings have been initiated within that period. (c) (c) The suspending and debarring official shall notify the Department of Justice or other responsible prosecuting official of the proposed termination of the suspension, at least 30 days before the 12-month period expires, to give that official an opportunity to request an extension on the Government's behalf.
4.1104 Disaster Response Registry. No subsections found.
26.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
42.1302 Suspension of work. No subsections found.
37.111 Extension of services. No subsections found.
8.005 Contract clause. No subsections found.
11.403 Supplies or services. (a) (a) The contracting officer may express contract delivery or performance schedules in terms of- (b) (b) The time specified for contract performance should not be curtailed to the prejudice of the contractor because of delay by the Government in giving notice of award. (c) (c) If the delivery schedule is based on the date of the contract, the contracting officer shall mail or otherwise furnish to the contractor the contract, notice of award, acceptance of proposal, or other contract document not later than the date of the contract. (d) (d) If the delivery schedule is based on the date the contractor receives the notice of award, or if the delivery schedule is expressed in terms of specific calendar dates on the assumption that the notice of award will be received by a specified date, the contracting officer shall send the contract, notice of award, acceptance of proposal, or other contract document by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any other method that will provide evidence of the date of receipt. (e) (e) In invitations for bids, if the delivery schedule is based on the date of the contract, and a bid offers delivery based on the date the contractor receives the contract or notice of award, the contracting officer shall evaluate the bid by adding 5 calendar days (as representing the normal time for arrival through ordinary mail). If the contract or notice of award will be transmitted electronically, (1) the solicitation shall so state; and (2) the contracting officer shall evaluate delivery schedule based on the date of contract receipt or notice of award, by adding oneworking day. (The term "working day" excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays.) If the offered delivery date computed with mailing or transmittal time is later than the delivery date required by the invitation for bids, the bid shall be considered nonresponsive and rejected. If award is made, the delivery date will be the number of days offered in the bid after the contractor actually receives the notice of award.
36.209 Construction contracts with architect-engineer firms. No subsections found.
Subpart 12.4 - Unique Requirements Regarding Terms and Conditions for Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
52.215-19 Notification of Ownership Changes. (a) (a) The Contractor shall make the following notifications in writing: (b) (b) The Contractor shall- (c) (c) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(k).
4.2202 Prohibition. (a) (a) Section 102 of Division R of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328), the No TikTok on Government Devices Act, and its implementing guidance under Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-23-13, dated February 27, 2023, “No TikTok on Government Devices” Implementation Guidance, collectively prohibit the presence or use of a covered application on information technology, including certain equipment used by Federal contractors. (b) (b) This prohibition applies to the presence or use of a covered application on any information technology owned or managed by the Government, or on any information technology used or provided by the contractor under a contract, including equipment provided by the contractor’s employees, unless an exception is granted in accordance with OMB Memorandum M-23-13.
36.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
28.106-4 Contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.228-2, Additional Bond Security, in solicitations and contracts when bonds are required. (b) (b) In accordance with secti on 806(a)(3) of Public Law 102-190, as amended by sections 2091 and 8105 of Public Law 103-355 (10 U.S.C. 4601 note prec.), the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.228-12, Prospective Subcontractor Requests for Bonds, in solicitations and contracts with respect to which a payment bond will be furnished pursuant to 40 U.S.C chapter 31, subchapter III, Bonds (see 28.102-1), except for contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services as defined in subpart  2.1.
46.705 Limitations. (a) (a) Except for the warranties in the clauses at 52.246-3, Inspection of Supplies-Cost-Reimbursement, and 52.246-8, Inspection of Research and Development-Cost-Reimbursement, the contracting officer shall not include warranties in cost-reimbursement contracts, unless authorized in accordance with agency regulations (see 46.708). (b) (b) Warranty clauses shall not limit the Government’s rights under an inspection clause (see subpart  46.3) in relation to latent defects, fraud, or gross mistakes that amount to fraud. (c) (c) Except for warranty clauses in construction contracts, warranty clauses shall provide that the warranty applies notwithstanding inspection and acceptance or other clauses or terms of the contract.
52.222-9 Apprentices and Trainees. (a) (a) Apprentices. (b) (b) Trainees. (c) (c) Equal employment opportunity. The utilization of apprentices, trainees, and journeymen under this clause shall be in conformity with the equal employment opportunity requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, and 29 CFR Part 30.
13.202 Unenforceability of unauthorized obligations in micro-purchases. No subsections found.
22.2102 Policy. (a) (a) The Government shall require contractors to allow employees performing work on or in connection with a contract covered by E.O. 13706 to accrue and use paid sick leave in accordance with the E.O. and 29 CFR Part 13. (b) (b) Interaction with other laws. Nothing in E.O. 13706 or 29 CFR Part 13 shall excuse noncompliance with or supersede any applicable Federal or State law, any applicable law or municipal ordinance, or a collective bargaining agreement requiring greater paid sick leave or leave rights than those established under E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13. For additional details regarding interaction with the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and State and local paid sick time laws, see 29 CFR 13.5(f)(2) through (4). (c) (c) Interaction with paid time off policies. In accordance with 29 CFR 13.5(f)(5)(i), the paid sick leave requirements of E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13 may be satisfied by a contractor's voluntary paid time off policy, whether provided pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or otherwise, where the voluntary paid time off policy meets or exceeds the requirements. For additional details regarding paid time off policies, see 29 CFR 13.5(f)(5)(ii) and (iii). (d) (d) Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, compliance is the responsibility of the contractor, and enforcement is the responsibility of the Department of Labor.
36.213-1 General. No subsections found.
27.203-1 General. (a) (a) Unauthorized disclosure of classified subject matter, whether in patent applications or resulting from the issuance of a patent, may be a violation of 18 U.S.C. 792, et seq. (Chapter 37-Espionage and Censorship), and related statutes, and may be contrary to the interests of national security. (b) (b) Upon receipt of a patent application under paragraph (a) or (b) of the clause at 52.227-10, Filing of Patent Applications-Classified Subject Matter, the contracting officer shall ascertain the proper security classification of the patent application. If the application contains classified subject matter, the contracting officer shall inform the contractor how to transmit the application to the United States Patent Office in accordance with procedures provided by legal counsel. If the material is classified "Secret" or higher, the contracting officer shall make every effort to notify the contractor within 30 days of the Government’s determination, pursuant to paragraph (a) of the clause. (c) (c) Upon receipt of information furnished by the contractor under paragraph (d) of the clause at 52.227-10, the contracting officer shall promptly submit that information to legal counsel in order that the steps necessary to ensure the security of the application will be taken. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall act promptly on requests for approval of foreign filing under paragraph (c) of the clause at 52.227-10 in order to avoid the loss of valuable patent rights of the Government or the contractor.
Subpart 32.9 - Prompt Payment No subsections found.
3.801 Definitions. No subsections found.
42.202 Assignment of contract administration. (a) (a) Delegating functions. As provided in agency procedures, contracting officers may delegate contract administration or specialized support services, either through interagency agreements or by direct request to the cognizant CAO listed in the Federal Directory of Contract Administration Services Components. The delegation should include- (b) (b) Special instructions. As necessary, the contracting officer also shall advise the contractor (and other activities as appropriate) of any functions withheld from or additional functions delegated to the CAO. (c) (c) Delegating additional functions. For individual contracts or groups of contracts, the contracting office may delegate to the CAO functions not listed in 42.302, provided that- (d) (d) Rescinding functions. The contracting officer at the requesting agency may rescind or recall a delegation to administer a contract or perform a contract administration function, except for functions pertaining to cost accounting standards and negotiation of forward pricing rates and indirect cost rates (also see 42.003). The requesting agency must coordinate with the ACO to establish a reasonable transition period prior to rescinding or recalling the delegation. (e) (e) Secondary delegations of contract administration. (f) (f) Special surveillance. For major system acquisitions (see part  34), the contracting officer may designate certain high risk or critical subsystems or components for special surveillance in addition to requesting supporting contract administration. This surveillance shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the policy of requesting that the cognizant CAO perform contract administration functions at a contractor’s facility (see 42.002). (g) (g) Refusing delegation of contract administration. An agency may decline a request for contract administration services on a case-by-case basis if resources of the agency are inadequate to accomplish the tasks. Declinations shall be in writing.
6.305 Availability of the justification. (a) (a) The agency shall make publicly available the justification required by 6.303-1 as required by 10 U.S.C. 3204(f) and 41 U.S.C. 3304(f). Except for the circumstances in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the justification shall be made publicly available within 14 days after contract award. (b) (b) In the case of a contract award permitted under 6.302-2, the justification shall be posted within 30 days after contract award. (c) (c) In the case of a brand name justification under 6.302-1(c), the justification shall be posted with the solicitation (see 5.102(a)(6)). (d) (d) The justifications shall be made publicly available- (e) (e) Contracting officers shall carefully screen all justifications for contractor proprietary data and remove all such data, and such references and citations as are necessary to protect the proprietary data, before making the justifications available for public inspection. Contracting officers shall also be guided by the exemptions to disclosure of information contained in the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and the prohibitions against disclosure in 24.202 in determining whether the justification, or portions of it, are exempt from posting. Although the submitter notice process set out in EO 12600, entitled "Predisclosure Notification Procedures for Confidential Commercial Information," does not apply, if the justification appears to contain proprietary data, the contracting officer should provide the contractor that submitted the information an opportunity to review the justification for proprietary data, before making the justification available for public inspection, redacted as necessary. This process must not prevent or delay the posting of the justification in accordance with the timeframes required in paragraphs (a) through (c). (f) (f) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) do not apply if posting the justification would disclose the executive agency’s needs and disclosure of such needs would compromise national security or create other security risks.
52.203-17 Contractor Employee Whistleblower Rights. (a) (a) This contract and employees working on this contract will be subject to the whistleblower rights and remedies established at 41 U.S.C. 4712 and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 3.900 through 3.905. (b) (b) The Contractor shall inform its employees in writing, in the predominant language of the workforce, of employee whistleblower rights and protections under 41 U.S.C. 4712, as described in FAR 3.900 through 3.905. (c) (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts.
52.209-8 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Part 39 - Acquisition of Information Technology No subsections found.
53.243 Contract modifications (SF 30). No subsections found.
3.104 Procurement integrity. No subsections found.
12.504 Applicability of certain laws to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services. (a) (a) The following laws are not applicable to subcontracts at any tier for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services at any tier: (b) (b) The requirements for a certificate and clause under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards statute, 40 U.S.C. 37, (see subpart  22.3) are not applicable to subcontracts at any tier for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services or commercial components. (c) (c) The applicability of the following laws has been modified in regard to subcontracts at any tier for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services:
52.220 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.247-21 Contractor Liability for Personal Injury and/or Property Damage. (a) (a) The Contractor assumes responsibility for all damage or injury to persons or property occasioned through the use, maintenance, and operation of the Contractor’s vehicles or other equipment by, or the action of, the Contractor or the Contractor’s employees and agents. (b) (b) The Contractor, at the Contractor’s expense, shall maintain adequate public liability and property damage insurance during the continuance of this contract, insuring the Contractor against all claims for injury or damage. (c) (c) The Contractor shall maintain Workers’ Compensation and other legally required insurance with respect to the Contractor’s own employees and agents. (d) (d) The Government shall in no event be liable or responsible for damage or injury to any person or property occasioned through the use, maintenance, or operation of any vehicle or other equipment by, or the action of, the Contractor or the Contractor’s employees and agents in performing under this contract, and the Government shall be indemnified and saved harmless against claims for damage or injury in such cases.
Subpart 19.8 - Contracting with the Small Business Administration (The 8(a) Program) No subsections found.
52.247-8 Estimated Weights or Quantities Not Guaranteed. No subsections found.
19.1507 [Reserved] No subsections found.
33.201 Definitions. No subsections found.
7.403 General Services Administration assistance and OMB guidance. (a) (a) When requested by an agency, the General Services Administration (GSA) will assist in rent, lease, or purchase decisions by providing information such as- (b) (b) For additional GSA assistance and guidance, agencies may— (c) (c) For additional OMB guidance, see—
32.1101 Statutory requirements. No subsections found.
14.201-3 PartII-Contract clauses. No subsections found.
52.232-12 Advance Payments. (a) (a) Requirements for payment. Advance payments will be made under this contract (1) upon submission of properly certified invoices or vouchers by the Contractor, and approval by the administering office, ________ [insert the name of the office designated under agency procedures], or (2) under a letter of credit. The amount of the invoice or voucher submitted plus all advance payments previously approved shall not exceed $_______. If a letter of credit is used, the Contractor shall withdraw cash only when needed for disbursements acceptable under this contract and report cash disbursements and balances as required by the administering office. The Contractor shall apply terms similar to this clause to any advance payments to subcontractors. (b) (b) Special account. Until (1) the Contractor has liquidated all advance payments made under the contract and related interest charges and (2) the administering office has approved in writing the release of any funds due and payable to the Contractor, all advance payments and other payments under this (c) (c) Use of funds. The Contractor may withdraw funds from the special account only to pay for properly allocable, allowable, and reasonable costs for direct materials, direct labor, and indirect costs. Other withdrawals require approval in writing by the administering office. Determinations of whether costs are properly allocable, allowable, and reasonable shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, subject to any applicable subparts of part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (d) (d) Repayment to the Government. At any time, the Contractor may repay all or any part of the funds advanced by the Government. Whenever requested in writing to do so by the administering office, the Contractor shall repay to the Government any part of unliquidated advance payments considered by the administering office to exceed the Contractor’s current requirements or the amount specified in paragraph (a) of this clause. If the Contractor fails to repay the amount requested by the administering office, all or any part of the unliquidated advance payments may be withdrawn from the special account by check signed by only the countersigning agent and applied to reduction of the unliquidated advance payments under this contract. (e) (e) Maximum payment. When the sum of all unliquidated advance payments, unpaid interest charges, and other payments exceed _____ percent of the contract price, the Government shall withhold further payments to the Contractor. On completion or termination of the contract, the Government shall deduct from the amount due to the Contractor all unliquidated advance payments and all interest charges payable. If previous payments to the Contractor exceed the amount due, the excess amount shall be paid to the Government on demand. For purposes of this paragraph, the contract price shall be considered to be the stated contract price of $_____, less any subsequent price reductions under the contract, plus (1) any price increases resulting from any terms of this contract for price redetermination or escalation, and (2) any other price increases that do not, in the aggregate, exceed $_____ [insert an amount not higher than 10 percent of the stated contract amount inserted in this paragraph]. Any payments withheld under this paragraph shall be applied to reduce the unliquidated advance payments. If full liquidation has been made, payments under the contract shall resume. (f) (f) Interest. (g) (g) Financial institution agreement. Before an advance payment is made under this contract, the Contractor shall transmit to the administering office, in the form prescribed by the administering office, an agreement in triplicate from the financial institution in which the special account is established, clearly setting forth the special character of the account and the responsibilities of the financial institution under the account. The Contractor shall select a financial institution that is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System, an "insured" bank within the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1811), or a credit union insured by the National Credit Union Administration. (h) (h) Lien on special bank account. The Government shall have a lien upon any balance in the special account paramount to all other liens. The Government lien shall secure the repayment of any advance payments made under this contract and any related interest charges. (i) (i) Lien on property under contract. (j) (j) Insurance. (k) (k) Default. (l) (l) Prohibition against assignment. Notwithstanding any other terms of this contract, the Contractor shall not assign this contract, any interest therein, or any claim under the contract to any party. (m) (m) Information and access to records. The Contractor shall furnish to the administering office (1) monthly or at other intervals as required, signed or certified balance sheets and profit and loss statements together with a report on the operation of the special account in the form prescribed by the administering office; and (2) if requested, other information concerning the operation of the Contractor’s business. The Contractor shall provide the authorized Government representatives proper facilities for inspection of the Contractor’s books, records, and accounts. (n) (n) Other security. The terms of this contract are considered to provide adequate security to the Government for advance payments; however, if the administering office considers the security inadequate, the Contractor shall furnish additional security satisfactory to the administering office, to the extent that the security is available. (o) (o) Representations. The Contractor represents the following: (p) (p) Covenants. To the extent the Government considers it necessary while any advance payments made under this contract remain outstanding, the Contractor, without the prior written consent of the administering office, shall not-
52.229-5 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.303 Procedure after discontinuing vouchers. No subsections found.
5.202 Exceptions. (a) (a) The contracting officer determines that- (b) (b) The head of the agency determines in writing, after consultation with the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, that advance notice is not appropriate or reasonable.
52.245-1 Government Property. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Property management. (c) (c) Use of Government property. (d) (d) Government-furnished property. (e) (e) Title to Government property. (f) (f) Contractor plans and systems. (g) (g) Systems analysis. (h) (h) Contractor Liability for Government Property. (i) (i) Equitable adjustment. Equitable adjustments under this clause shall be made in accordance with the procedures of the Changes clause. However, the Government shall not be liable for breach of contract for the following: (j) (j) Contractor inventory disposal. Except as otherwise provided for in this contract, the Contractor shall not dispose of Contractor inventory until authorized to do so by the Plant Clearance Officer or authorizing official. (k) (k) Abandonment of Government property. (l) (l) Communication. All communications under this clause shall be in writing. (m) (m) Contracts outside the United States. If this contract is to be performed outside of the United States and its outlying areas, the words "Government" and "Government-furnished" (wherever they appear in this clause) shall be construed as "United States Government" and "United States Government-furnished," respectively.
53.201-1 Contracting authority and responsibilities (SF 1402). No subsections found.
53.105 Computer generation. (a) (a) The forms prescribed by this part may be computer generated without exception approval (see 53.103), provided- (b) (b) The standards listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may also be used for submission of data set forth in other parts for which specific forms have not been prescribed.
22.803 Responsibilities. (a) (a) The Secretary of Labor is responsible for the- (b) (b) The Secretary of Labor has delegated authority and assigned responsibility to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for carrying out the responsibilities assigned to the Secretary by E.O. 11246, except for the issuance of rules and regulations of a general nature. (c) (c) The head of each agency is responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this subpart are carried out within the agency, and for cooperating with and assisting the OFCCP in fulfilling its responsibilities. (d) (d) In the event the applicability of E.O. 11246 and implementing regulations is questioned, the contracting officer shall forward the matter to the Deputy Assistant Secretary, through agency channels, for resolution.
Subpart 44.3 - Contractors’ Purchasing Systems Reviews No subsections found.
32.501-3 Contract price. (a) (a) For the purpose of making progress payments and determining the limitation on progress payments, the contract price shall be as follows: (b) (b) The contracting officer shall not make progress payments or increase the contract price beyond the funds obligated under the contract, as amended.
22.404-2 General requirements. (a) (a) The contracting officer must incorporate only the appropriate wage determinations in solicitations and contracts and must designate the work to which each determination or part thereof applies. The contracting officer must not include project wage determinations in contracts or options other than those for which they are issued. When exercising an option to extend the term of a contract, the contracting officer must select the most current wage determination(s) from the same schedule(s) as the wage determination(s) incorporated into the contract. (b) (b) If the wage determination is a general wage determination or a project wage determination containing more than one rate schedule, the contracting officer shall either include only the rate schedules that apply to the particular types of construction (building, heavy, highway, etc.) or include the entire wage determination and clearly indicate the parts of the work to which each rate schedule shall be applied. Inclusion by reference is not permitted. (c) (c) The Wage and Hour Division has issued the following general guidelines for use in selecting the proper schedule(s) of wage rates:
1.705 Supersession and modification. (a) (a) If a D&F is superseded by another D&F, that action shall not render invalid any action taken under the original D&F prior to the date of its supersession. (b) (b) The contracting officer need not cancel the solicitation if the D&F, as modified, supports the contract action.
4.1801 Definitions. No subsections found.
9.703 Contracting with individual pool members. (a) (a) Pool members may submit individual offers, independent of the pool. However, the contracting officer shall not consider an independent offer by a pool member if that pool member participates in a competing offer submitted by the pool. (b) (b) If a pool member submits an individual offer, independent of the pool, the contracting officer shall consider the pool agreement, along with other factors, in determining whether that pool member is a responsible prospective contractor under subpart  9.1.
25.302-1 Scope. No subsections found.
45.602 Reutilization of Government property. No subsections found.
1.603-3 Appointment. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall be appointed in writing on an SF 1402, Certificate of Appointment, which shall state any limitations on the scope of authority to be exercised, other than limitations contained in applicable law or regulation. Appointing officials shall maintain files containing copies of all appointments that have not been terminated. (b) (b) Agency heads are encouraged to delegate micro-purchase authority to individuals who are employees of an executive agency or members of the Armed Forces of the United States who will be using the supplies or services being purchased. Individuals delegated this authority are not required to be appointed on an SF 1402, but shall be appointed in writing in accordance with agency procedures.
49.602-1 Termination settlement proposal forms. (a) (a) Standard Form 1435, Settlement Proposal (Inventory Basis), shall be used to submit settlement proposals resulting from the termination of fixed-price contracts if the proposals are computed on an inventory basis (see 49.206-2(a)). (b) (b) Standard Form 1436, Settlement Proposal (Total Cost Basis), shall be used to submit settlement proposals resulting from the termination of fixed-price contracts if the proposals are computed on a total cost basis (see 49.206-2(b)). (c) (c) Standard Form 1437, Settlement Proposal for Cost- Reimbursement Type Contracts, shall be used to submit settlement proposals resulting from the termination of cost-reimbursement contracts (see 49.302). (d) (d) Standard Form 1438, Settlement Proposal (Short Form), shall be used to submit settlement proposals resulting from the termination of fixed-price contracts if the total proposal is less than $10,000 (see 49.206-1(d)).
22.1603 Exceptions. (a) (a) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to- (b) (b) Exemptions granted by the Secretary.
52.215-8 Order of Precedence-Uniform Contract Format. (a) (a) The Schedule (excluding the specifications). (b) (b) Representations and other instructions. (c) (c) Contract clauses. (d) (d) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments. (e) (e) The specifications.
52.247-38 F.o.b. Inland Carrier, Point of Exportation. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. inland carrier, point of exportation," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government, on board the conveyance of the inland carrier, delivered to the specified point of exportation. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
32.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.223-18 [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.306 Insurance under fixed-price contracts. (a) (a) General. Although the Government is not ordinarily concerned with the contractor’s insurance coverage if the contract is a fixed-price contract, in special circumstances agencies may specify insurance requirements under fixed-price contracts. Examples of such circumstances include the following: (b) (b) Work on a Government installation.
49.113 Cost principles. (a) (a) Be used in asserting, negotiating, or determining costs relevant to termination settlements under contracts with other than educational institutions, and (b) (b) Be a guide for the negotiation of settlements under contracts for experimental, developmental, or research work with educational institutions (but see 31.104).
46.302 Fixed-price supply contracts. No subsections found.
52.239 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.222-55 Minimum Wages for Contractor Workers Under Executive Order 14026. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Executive Order Minimum wage rate. (c) (c) (d) (d) Notice. The Contractor shall notify all workers performing work on, or in connection with, this contract of the applicable E.O. minimum wage rate under this clause. With respect to workers covered by the Service Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, the Contractor may meet this requirement by posting, in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite, the applicable wage determination under those statutes. With respect to workers whose wages are governed by the FLSA, the Contractor shall post notice, utilizing the poster provided by the Administrator, which can be obtained at www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/government-contracts, in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite. Contractors that customarily post notices to workers electronically may post the notice electronically provided the electronic posting is displayed prominently on any Web site that is maintained by the contractor, whether external or internal, and customarily used for notices to workers about terms and conditions of employment. (e) (e) Payroll Records. (f) (f) Access. The Contractor shall permit authorized representatives of the Administrator to conduct investigations, including interviewing workers at the worksite during normal working hours. (g) (g) Withholding. The Contracting Officer, upon his or her own action or upon written request of the Administrator, will withhold funds or cause funds to be withheld, from the Contractor under this or any other Federal contract with the same Contractor, sufficient to pay workers the full amount of wages required by this clause. (h) (h) Disputes. Department of Labor has set forth in 29 CFR 23.510, Disputes concerning contractor compliance, the procedures for resolving disputes concerning a contractor’s compliance with Department of Labor regulations at 29 CFR part 23. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with those procedures and not the Disputes clause of this contract. These disputes include disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency, the Department of Labor, or the workers or their representatives. (i) (i) Antiretaliation. The Contractor shall not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against any worker because such worker has filed any complaint or instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to compliance with the E.O. or this clause, or has testified or is about to testify in any such proceeding. (j) (j) Subcontractor compliance. The Contractor is responsible for subcontractor compliance with the requirements of this clause and may be held liable for unpaid wages due subcontractor workers. (k) (k) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (k) in all subcontracts, regardless of dollar value, that are subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and are to be performed in whole or in part in the United States.
52.242-15 Stop-Work Order. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order to the Contractor, require the Contractor to stop all, or any part, of the work called for by this contract for a period of 90 days after the order is delivered to the Contractor, and for any further period to which the parties may agree. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. Within a period of 90 days after a stop-work is delivered to the Contractor, or within any extension of that period to which the parties shall have agreed, the Contracting Officer shall either- (b) (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled or the period of the order or any extension thereof expires, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if- (c) (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order.
28.102-3 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.228-15, Performance and Payment Bonds-Construction, in solicitations and contracts for construction that contain a requirement for performance and payment bonds if the resultant contract is expected to exceed $150,000. The contracting officer may revise paragraphs (b)(1) and/or (b)(2) of the clause to establish a lower percentage in accordance with 28.102-2(b). If the provision at 52.228-1 is not included in the solicitation, the contracting officer must set a period of time for return of executed bonds. (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.228-13, Alternative Payment Protections, in solicitations and contracts for construction, when the estimated or actual value exceeds $35,000 but does not exceed $150,000. Complete the clause by specifying the payment protections selected (see 28.102-1(b)(1)) and the deadline for submission. The contracting officer may revise paragraph (b) of the clause to establish a lower percentage in accordance with 28.102-2(c).
18.113 Interagency acquisitions. No subsections found.
Part 20 - Reserved No subsections found.
52.232-36 Payment by Third Party. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Contractor payment request. (c) (c) Payment. The Contractor and the third party shall agree that payments due under this contract shall be made upon submittal of payment requests to the third party in accordance with the terms and conditions of an agreement between the Contractor, the Contractor’s financial agent (if any), and the third party and its agents (if any). No payment shall be due the Contractor until such agreement is made. Payments made or due by the third party under this clause are not payments made by the Government and are not subject to the Prompt Payment Act or any implementation thereof in this contract. (d) (d) Documentation. Documentation of each charge against the Government’s account shall be provided to the Contracting Officer upon request. (e) (e) Assignment of claims. Notwithstanding any other provision of this contract, if any payment is made under this clause, then no payment under this contract shall be assigned under the provisions of the assignment of claims terms of this contract or the Assignment of Claims Act of1940 (31 U.S.C.3727, 41 U.S.C. 6305). (f) (f) Other payment terms. The other payment terms of this contract shall govern the content and submission of payment requests. If any clause requires information or documents in or with the payment request, that is not provided in the third party agreement referenced in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contractor shall obtain instructions from the Contracting Officer before submitting such a payment request.
52.209-13 Violation of Arms Control Treaties or Agreements-Certification. (a) (a) This provision does not apply to acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or to acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101. (b) (b) Certification. [Offeror shall check either (1) or (2).] (c) (c) Procedures for reviewing the annual unclassified report (see paragraph (b)(1) of this provision). For clarity, references to the report in this section refer to the entirety of the annual unclassified report, including any separate reports that are incorporated by reference into the annual unclassified report. (d) (d) Do not submit an offer unless— (e) (e) Remedies. The certification in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly submitted a false certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, such as suspension or debarment, the Contracting Officer may terminate any contract resulting from the false certification.
8.402 General. (a) (a) The Federal Supply Schedule program is also known as the GSA Schedules Program or the Multiple Award Schedule Program. The Federal Supply Schedule program is directed and managed by GSA and provides Federal agencies (see 8.004) with a simplified process for obtaining commercial supplies and commercial services at prices associated with volume buying. Indefinite delivery contracts are awarded to provide supplies and services at stated prices for given periods of time. GSA may delegate certain responsibilities to other agencies (e.g., GSA has delegated authority to the VA to procure medical supplies under the VA Federal Supply Schedules program). Orders issued under the VA Federal Supply Schedule program are covered by this subpart. Additionally, the Department of Defense (DoD) manages similar systems of schedule-type contracting for military items; however, DoD systems are not covered by this subpart. (b) (b) GSA schedule contracts require all schedule contractors to publish an "Authorized Federal Supply Schedule Pricelist" (pricelist). The pricelist contains all supplies and services offered by a schedule contractor. In addition, each pricelist contains the pricing and the terms and conditions pertaining to each Special Item Number that is on schedule. The schedule contractor is required to provide one copy of its pricelist to any ordering activity upon request. Also, a copy of the pricelist may be obtained from the Federal Supply Service by submitting a written e-mail request to schedules.infocenter@gsa.gov or by telephone at 1-800-488-3111. This subpart, together with the pricelists, contain necessary information for placing delivery or task orders with schedule contractors. In addition, the GSA schedule contracting office issues Federal Supply Schedules publications that contain a general overview of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) program and address pertinent topics. Ordering activities may request copies of schedules publications by contacting the Centralized Mailing List Service through the Internet at http://www.gsa.gov/cmls, submitting written e-mail requests to CMLS@gsa.gov; or by completing GSA Form 457, FSS Publications Mailing List Application, and mailing it to the GSA Centralized Mailing List Service (7 SM), P.O. Box 6477, Fort Worth, TX 76115. Copies of GSA Form 457 may also be obtained from the above-referenced points of contact. (c) (c) (d) (d) (e) (e) For more information or assistance regarding the Federal Supply Schedule Program, review the following website: http://www.gsa.gov/schedules. Additionally, for on-line training courses regarding the Schedules Program, review the following website: http://www.gsa.gov/training. (f) (f) For administrative convenience, an ordering activity contracting officer may add items not on the Federal Supply Schedule (also referred to as open market items) to a Federal Supply Schedule blanket purchase agreement (BPA) or an individual task or delivery order only if- (g) (g) When using the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as a method of payment, orders at or below the micro-purchase threshold are exempt from verification in the System for Award Management as to whether the contractor has a delinquent debt subject to collection under the Treasury Offset Program (TOP).
Subpart 16.3 - Cost-Reimbursement Contracts No subsections found.
52.248-3 Value Engineering-Construction. (a) (a) General. The Contractor is encouraged to develop, prepare, and submit value engineering change proposals (VECP’s) voluntarily. The Contractor shall share in any instant contract savings realized from accepted VECP’s, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this clause. (b) (b) Definitions. "Collateral costs," as used in this clause, means agency costs of operation, maintenance, logistic support, or Government-furnished property. (c) (c) VECP preparation. As a minimum, the Contractor shall include in each VECP the information described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this clause. If the proposed change is affected by contractually required configuration management or similar procedures, the instructions in those procedures relating to format, identification, and priority assignment shall govern VECP preparation. The VECP shall include the following: (d) (d) Submission. The Contractor shall submit VECP’s to the Resident Engineer at the worksite, with a copy to the Contracting Officer. (e) (e) Government action. (f) (f) Sharing- (g) (g) Collateral savings. If a VECP is accepted, the Contracting Officer will increase the instant contract amount by 20 percent of any projected collateral savings determined to be realized in a typical year of use after subtracting any Government costs not previously offset. However, the Contractor’s share of collateral savings will not exceed the contract’s firm-fixed-price or estimated cost, at the time the VECP is accepted, or $100,000, whichever is greater. The Contracting Officer is the sole determiner of the amount of collateral savings. (h) (h) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include an appropriate value engineering clause in any subcontract of $75,000 or more and may include one in subcontracts of lesser value. In computing any adjustment in this contract’s price under paragraph (f) of this clause, the Contractor’s allowable development and implementation costs shall include any subcontractor’s allowable development and implementation costs clearly resulting from a VECP accepted by the Government under this contract, but shall exclude any value engineering incentive payments to a subcontractor. The Contractor may choose any arrangement for subcontractor value engineering incentive payments; provided, that these payments shall not reduce the Government’s share of the savings resulting from the VECP. (i) (i) Data. The Contractor may restrict the Government’s right to use any part of a VECP or the supporting data by marking the following legend on the affected parts:
Volume I-Parts 1 to 51 No subsections found.
52.204 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 25.5 - Evaluating Foreign Offers-Supply Contracts No subsections found.
FAR Correction(s) No subsections found.
4.103 Contract clause. No subsections found.
15.503 Notifications to unsuccessful offerors. (a) (a) Preaward notices- (b) (b) Postaward notices.
22.501 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 49.1 - General Principles No subsections found.
6.303-1 Requirements. (a) (a) A contracting officer shall not commence negotiations for a sole source contract, commence negotiations for a contract resulting from an unsolicited proposal, or award any other contract without providing for full and open competition unless the contracting officer- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall not award a sole-source contract under the 8(a) authority (15 U.S.C. 637(a)) for an amount exceeding $25 million unless- (c) (c) Technical and requirements personnel are responsible for providing and certifying as accurate and complete necessary data to support their recommendation for other than full and open competition. (d) (d) Justifications required by paragraph (a) of this section may be made on an individual or class basis. Any justification for contracts awarded under the authority of 6.302-7 shall only be made on an individual basis. Whenever a justification is made and approved on a class basis, the contracting officer must ensure that each contract action taken pursuant to the authority of the class justification and approval is within the scope of the class justification and approval and shall document the contract file for each contract action accordingly. (e) (e) The justifications for contracts awarded under the authority cited in 6.302-2 may be prepared and approved within a reasonable time after contract award when preparation and approval prior to award would unreasonably delay the acquisitions.
52.217-1 [Reserved] No subsections found.
50.101-2 Policy. (a) (a) The authority conferred by Pub. L. 85-804 may not- (b) (b) Actions authorized under Pub. L. 85-804 shall be accomplished as expeditiously as practicable, consistent with the care, restraint, and exercise of sound judgment appropriate to the use of such extraordinary authority. (c) (c) Certain kinds of relief previously available only under Pub. L. 85-804; e.g., rescission or reformation for mutual mistake, are now available under the authority of 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, Contract Disputes. In accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this subsection, part  33 must be followed in preference to subpart  50.1 for such relief. In case of doubt as to whether part  33 applies, the contracting officer should seek legal advice.
1.302 Limitations. (a) (a) Those necessary to implement FAR policies and procedures within the agency; and (b) (b) Additional policies, procedures, solicitation provisions, or contract clauses that supplement the FAR to satisfy the specific needs of the agency.
37.108 Small business Certificate of Competency. No subsections found.
9.304 Exceptions. (a) (a) Research or development; (b) (b) Products requiring qualification before award (e.g., when an applicable qualified products list exists (see subpart  9.2)); (c) (c) Products normally sold in the commercial market; or (d) (d) Products covered by complete and detailed technical specifications, unless the requirements are so novel or exacting that it is questionable whether the products would meet the requirements without testing and approval.
16.203-2 Application. (a) (a) In establishing the base level from which adjustment will be made, the contracting officer shall ensure that contingency allowances are not duplicated by inclusion in both the base price and the adjustment requested by the contractor under economic price adjustment clause. (b) (b) In contracts that do not require submission of certified cost or pricing data, the contracting officer shall obtain adequate data to establish the base level from which adjustment will be made and may require verification of data submitted.
36.210 Inspection of site and examination of data. No subsections found.
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
19.808-2 Competitive. No subsections found.
28.203-4 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a)Insert the provision at 52.228-17, Individual Surety—Pledge of Assets (Bid Guarantee), in solicitations that require the submission of a bid guarantee. (b) (b)Insert the clause at 52.228-11, Individual Surety—Pledge of Assets, in solicitations and contracts that require the submission of performance or payment bonds.
14.205 Presolicitation notices. (a) (a) Specify the final date for receipt of requests for a complete bid set; (b) (b) Briefly describe the requirement and furnish other essential information to enable concerns to determine whether they have an interest in the invitation; and (c) (c) Normally not include drawings, plans, and specifications. The return date of the notice must be sufficiently in advance of the mailing date of the invitation for bids to permit an accurate estimate of the number of bid sets required. Bid sets shall be sent to concerns that request them in response to the notice.
19.1309 Contract clauses. (a) (a)The contracting officer shall insert the clause 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award, in solicitations and contracts for acquisitions that are set aside or awarded on a sole-source basis to, HUBZone small business concerns under 19.1305 or 19.1306. This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for HUBZone small business concerns as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) or when orders may be issued directly to one HUBZone small business concern in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii). (b) (b)The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns, in solicitations and contracts for acquisitions conducted using full and open competition. (c) (c)For use of clause 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, see the prescription at 19.507(e). (d) (d) For use of clause 52.219-33, Nonmanufacturer Rule, see the prescription at 19.507(h).
41.702 Formats for annual utility service review. (a) (a) Formats for use in conducting annual reviews of the following utility services are available from the address specified at 41.301(a) and may be used at the agency’s discretion: (b) (b) Contracting officers may modify the annual utility service review format as necessary to fully cover the service used.
25.703-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.241-6 Service Provisions. (a) (a) Measurement of service. (b) (b) Meter test. (c) (c) Change in volume or character. Reasonable notice shall be given by the Contracting Officer to the Contractor regarding any material changes anticipated in the volume or characteristics of the utility service required at each location. (d) (d) Continuity of service and consumption. The Contractor shall use reasonable diligence to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service at each service location, but shall not be liable for damages, breach of contract or otherwise, to the Government for failure, suspension, diminution, or other variations of service occasioned by or in consequence of any cause beyond the control of the Contractor, including but not limited to acts of God or of the public enemy, fires, floods, earthquakes, or other catastrophe, strikes, or failure or breakdown of transmission or other facilities. If any such failure, suspension, diminution, or other variation of service shall aggregate more than _______ hour(s) during any billing period hereunder, an equitable adjustment shall be made in the monthly billing specified in this contract (including the minimum monthly charge).
22.1003-1 General. No subsections found.
39.001 Applicability. (a) (a)Information technology by or for the use of agencies except for acquisitions of information technology for national security systems. However, acquisitions of information technology for national security systems shall be conducted in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 11302 with regard to requirements for performance and results-based management; the role of the agency Chief Information Officer in acquisitions; and accountability. These requirements are addressed in OMB Circular No. A-130; and (b) (b)Information and communication technology by or for the use of agencies or for the use of the public, unless an exception (see 39.204) or an exemption (see 39.205) applies. See 36 CFR 1194.1.
Subpart 22.16 - Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act No subsections found.
52.250-4 SAFETY Act Pre-qualification Designation Notice. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision- (b) (b) The Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (SAFETY Act), 6 U.S.C. 441-444, creates certain liability limitations for claims arising out of, relating to, or resulting from an act of terrorism where QATTs have been deployed. It also confers other important benefits. SAFETY Act designation and SAFETY Act certification are designed to support effective technologies aimed at preventing, detecting, identifying, or deterring acts of terrorism, or limiting the harm that such acts might otherwise cause, and which also meet other prescribed criteria. (c) (c) (d) (d) All determinations by DHS are based on factors set forth in the SAFETY Act and its implementing regulations. A determination by DHS to issue a SAFETY Act designation, or not to issue a SAFETY Act designation for a particular Technology as a QATT is not a determination that the Technology meets, or fails to meet, the requirements of any solicitation issued by any Federal, State, local or tribal governments. Determinations by DHS with respect to whether to issue a SAFETY Act designation for Technologies submitted for DHS review are based on the factors identified in 6 CFR 25.4(b). (e) (e) Neither SAFETY Act designation nor certification is in any way a requirement of this action. Whether to seek the benefits of the SAFETY Act for a proposed product or service is entirely up to the offeror. Additional information about the SAFETY Act may be found at the SAFETY Act website at http://www.SAFETYAct.gov. (f) (f) Proposals in which pricing or any other terms or conditions are offered contingent upon SAFETY Act designation or certification of the proposed product(s) or service(s) will not be considered for award.
22.1014 Delay over 60 days in bid opening or commencement of work. No subsections found.
Subpart 6.4 - Sealed Bidding and Competitive Proposals No subsections found.
16.404 Fixed-price contracts with award fees. No subsections found.
43.103 Types of contract modifications. (a) (a) Bilateral. A bilateral modification (supplemental agreement) is a contract modification that is signed by the contractor and the contracting officer. Bilateral modifications are used to- (b) (b) Unilateral. A unilateral modification is a contract modification that is signed only by the contracting officer. Unilateral modifications are used, for example, to-
40.202-2 Applicability. No subsections found.
3.503 Unreasonable restrictions on subcontractor sales. No subsections found.
12.103 Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) items. No subsections found.
52.204-13 System for Award Management Maintenance. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) If the solicitation for this contract contained the provision 52.204-7 with its Alternate I, and the Contractor was unable to register prior to award, the Contractor shall be registered in SAM within 30 days after award or before three days prior to submission of the first invoice, whichever occurs first. (c) (c) The Contractor shall maintain registration in SAM during contract performance and through final payment of any contract, basic agreement, basic ordering agreement, or blanket purchasing agreement. The Contractor is responsible for the currency, accuracy and completeness of the data within SAM, and for any liability resulting from the Government's reliance on inaccurate or incomplete data. To remain registered in SAM after the initial registration, the Contractor is required to review and update on an annual basis, from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates, its information in SAM to ensure it is current, accurate and complete. Updating information in SAM does not alter the terms and conditions of this contract and is not a substitute for a properly executed contractual document. (d) (d) (e) (e) Contractors may obtain additional information on registration and annual confirmation requirements at https://www.sam.gov.
Subpart 8.11 - Leasing of Motor Vehicles No subsections found.
47.404 Air freight forwarders. (a) (a) Agencies may use air freight forwarders that are engaged in international air transportation (49 U.S.C. 1301(c)) for U.S. Government-financed movements of property. The rule on disallowance of expenditures in 47.403-3(a) applies also to the air carriers used by these international air freight forwarders. (b) (b) Agency personnel shall inform international air freight forwarders that to facilitate prompt payments of their bills, they shall submit with their bills-
47.305-15 Loading responsibilities of contractors. (a) (a) (b) (b) If the nature of the supplies or safety, environmental, or transportability factors require special methods for securing the supplies on the carrier’s equipment, or if only a special mode of transportation or type vehicle is appropriate, the contracting officer shall include in solicitations detailed specifications that have been coordinated with the transportation office.
32.805 Procedure. (a) (a) Assignments. (b) (b) Filing. The assignee shall forward to each party specified in 32.802(e) an original and three copies of the notice of assignment, together with one true copy of the instrument of assignment. The true copy shall be a certified duplicate or photostat copy of the original assignment. (c) (c) Format for notice of assignment. The following is a suggested format for use by an assignee in providing the notice of assignment required by 32.802(e). (d) (d) Examination by the Government. In examining and processing notices of assignment and before acknowledging their receipt, contracting officers should assure that the following conditions and any additional conditions specified in agency regulations, have been met: (e) (e) Release of assignment.
25.101 General. (a) (a) The Buy American statute restricts the purchase of supplies that are not domestic end products. For manufactured (b) (b) The Buy American statute applies to small business set-asides. A manufactured product of a small business concern is a U.S.-made end product, but is not a domestic end product unless it meets the domestic content test in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (c) (c) Exceptions that allow the purchase of a foreign end product are listed at 25.103. The unreasonable cost exception is implemented through the use of an evaluation factor applied to low foreign offers that are not eligible offers. The evaluation factor is not used to provide a preference for one foreign offer over another. Evaluation procedures and examples are provided in subpart  25.5 . (d) (d)
19.705-1 General. (a) (a) The contracting officer may encourage the development of increased subcontracting opportunities in negotiated acquisition by providing monetary incentives such as payments based on actual subcontracting achievement or award-fee contracting (see the clause at 52.219-10, Incentive Subcontracting Program, and 19.708(c)). When using any contractual incentive provision based upon rewarding the contractor monetarily for exceeding goals in the subcontracting plan, the contracting officer must ensure that (a) the goals are realistic and (b) any rewards for exceeding the goals are commensurate with the efforts the contractor would not have otherwise expended. Incentive provisions should normally be negotiated after reaching final agreement with the contractor on the subcontracting plan. (b) (b)
37.301 Labor standards. No subsections found.
4.1602 Identifying the PIID and supplementary PIID. (a) (a) Identifying the PIID in solicitation and contract award documentation (including forms and electronic generated formats). Agencies shall include all PIIDs for all related procurement actions as identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. (b) (b) Placement of the PIID on forms. When the form (including electronic generated format) does not provide spaces or fields for the PIID or supplementary PIID required in paragraph (a) of this section, identify the PIID in accordance with agency procedures. (c) (c) Additional agency specific identification information. If agency procedures require additional identification information in solicitations, contracts, or other related procurement instruments for administrative purposes, separate and clearly identify the additional information from the PIID.
Subpart 26.4 - Food Donations to Nonprofit Organizations No subsections found.
52.105 Procedures for using alternates. (a) (a) The FAR accommodates a major variation in a provision or clause by use of an alternate. The FAR prescribes alternates to a given provision or clause in the FAR subject text where the provision or clause is prescribed. The alternates to each provision or clause are titled "Alternate I," "Alternate II," "Alternate III," etc. (b) (b) When an alternate is used, its date shall be cited along with the date of the basic provision or clause; e.g., 52.209-3 First Article Approval-Contractor Testing (Oct 1983)-Alternate I (Dec 1983). (c) (c) Under certain circumstances, a provision or clause may be used with two or more alternates. In these circumstances, each of the applicable alternates shall be cited, whether incorporated by reference or in full text; e.g., 52.209-3 First Article Approval-Contractor Testing (Oct 1983)-Alternate I (Dec 1983) and Alternate II (Feb 1984). However, under no circumstances may an alternate to a specific provision or clause be applied to any other provision or clause.
15.602 Policy. No subsections found.
32.008 Notification of overpayment. No subsections found.
4.202 Agency distribution requirements. No subsections found.
22.404-10 Posting wage determinations and notice. No subsections found.
52.222-12 Contract Termination-Debarment. No subsections found.
49.603-9 Settlement of reservations. No subsections found.
52.236-11 Use and Possession Prior to Completion. (a) (a) The Government shall have the right to take possession of or use any completed or partially completed part of the work. Before taking possession of or using any work, the Contracting Officer shall furnish the Contractor a list of items of work remaining to be performed or corrected on those portions of the work that the Government intends to take possession of or use. However, failure of the Contracting Officer to list any item of work shall not relieve the Contractor of responsibility for complying with the terms of the contract. The Government’s possession or use shall not be deemed an acceptance of any work under the contract. (b) (b) While the Government has such possession or use, the Contractor shall be relieved of the responsibility for the loss of or damage to the work resulting from the Government’s possession or use, notwithstanding the terms of the clause in this contract entitled "Permits and Responsibilities." If prior possession or use by the Government delays the progress of the work or causes additional expense to the Contractor, an equitable adjustment shall be made in the contract price or the time of completion, and the contract shall be modified in writing accordingly.
32.1010 Risk of loss. (a) (a) Under the clause at 52.232-32, Performance-Based Payments, and except for normal spoilage, the contractor bears the risk of loss for Government property, even though title is vested in the Government, unless the Government has expressly assumed this risk. The clauses prescribed in this regulation related to performance-based payments, default, and terminations do not constitute a Government assumption of risk. (b) (b) If a loss occurs in connection with property for which the contractor bears the risk, and the property is needed for performance, the contractor is obligated to repay the Government the performance-based payments related to the property. (c) (c) The contractor is not obligated to pay for the loss of property for which the Government has assumed the risk of loss. However, a serious loss may impede the satisfactory progress of contract performance, so that the contracting officer may need to act under paragraph (e)(2) of the Performance-Based Payments clause. In addition, while the contractor is not required to repay previous performance-based payments in the event of a loss for which the Government has assumed the risk, such a loss may prevent the contractor from making the certification required by the Performance-Based Payments clause.
Subpart 37.6 - Performance-Based Acquisition No subsections found.
8.703 	Procurement List. No subsections found.
52.236-4 Physical Data. (a) (a) The indications of physical conditions on the drawings and in the specifications are the result of site investigations by __________ [insert a description of investigational methods used, such as surveys, auger borings, core borings, test pits, probings, test tunnels]. (b) (b) Weather conditions __________ [insert a summary of weather records and warnings]. (c) (c) Transportation facilities _________ [insert a summary of transportation facilities providing access from the site, including information about their availability and limitations]. (d) (d) ___________ [insert other pertinent information].
19.303 	[Reserved]. No subsections found.
31.205-29 Plant protection costs. (a) (a) Wages, uniforms, and equipment of personnel engaged in plant protection, (b) (b) Depreciation on plant protection capital assets, and (c) (c) Necessary expenses to comply with military requirements, are allowable.
Subpart 15.2 - Solicitation and Receipt of Proposals and Information No subsections found.
42.705-4 State and local governments. No subsections found.
52.227-6 Royalty Information. (a) (a) Cost or charges for royalties. When the response to this solicitation contains costs or charges for royalties totaling more than $250, the following information shall be included in the response relating to each separate item of royalty or license fee: (b) (b) Copies of current licenses. In addition, if specifically requested by the Contracting Officer before execution of the contract, the offeror shall furnish a copy of the current license agreement and an identification of applicable claims of specific patents.
35.016 Broad agency announcement. (a) (a) General. This paragraph prescribes procedures for the use of the broad agency announcement (BAA) with Peer or Scientific Review (see 6.102(d)(2)) for the acquisition of basic and applied research and that part of development not related to the development of a specific system or hardware procurement. BAA’s may be used by agencies to fulfill their requirements for scientific study and experimentation directed toward advancing the state-of-the-art or increasing knowledge or understanding rather than focusing on a specific system or hardware solution. The BAA technique shall only be used when meaningful proposals with varying technical/scientific approaches can be reasonably anticipated. (b) (b) The BAA, together with any supporting documents, shall- (c) (c) The availability of the BAA must be publicized through the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE) and, if authorized pursuant to subpart  5.5, may also be published in noted scientific, technical, or engineering periodicals. The notice must be published no less frequently than annually. (d) (d) Proposals received as a result of the BAA shall be evaluated in accordance with evaluation criteria specified therein through a peer or scientific review process. Written evaluation reports on individual proposals will be necessary but proposals need not be evaluated against each other since they are not submitted in accordance with a common work statement. (e) (e) The primary basis for selecting proposals for acceptance shall be technical, importance to agency programs, and fund availability. Cost realism and reasonableness shall also be considered to the extent appropriate. (f) (f) Synopsis under subpart  5.2, Synopses of Proposed Contract Actions, of individual contract actions based upon proposals received under the BAA is not required. The notice published pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section fulfills the synopsis requirement.
34.005-2 Mission-oriented solicitation. (a) (a) Before issuing the solicitation, whenever practicable and consistent with agency procedures, the contracting officer should take the actions outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2): (b) (b) The contracting officer shall send the final solicitation to all prospective offerors. It shall- (c) (c) To the extent practicable, the solicitation shall not reference or mandate Government specifications or standards, unless the agency is mandating a subsystem or other component as approved under agency procedure.
53.220 [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.607-2 Deferment of collection. (a) (a) All requests for deferment of collection must be submitted in writing to the contracting officer. (b) (b) Upon receipt of the contractor’s written request, the contracting officer shall promptly provide a notification to the payment office and advise the payment office that the contractor’s request is under consideration. (c) (c) (d) (d) The office designated in agency procedures may authorize a deferment pending the resolution of appeal to avoid possible overcollections. The agency is required to use unexpired funds to pay interest on overcollections. (e) (e) Deferments pending disposition of appeal may be granted to small business concerns and financially weak contractors, balancing the need for Government security against loss and undue hardship on the contractor. (f) (f) The deferment agreement shall not provide that a claim of the Government will not become due and payable pending mutual agreement on the amount of the claim or, in the case of a dispute, until the decision is reached. (g) (g) At a minimum, the deferment agreement shall contain the following: (h) (h) If a contractor appeal of the debt determination is pending, the deferment agreement shall also include a requirement that the contractor shall- (i) (i) The deferment agreement may provide for the right to make early payments without prejudice, for refund of overpayments, and for crediting of interest.
28.101-2 Solicitation provision or contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert a provision or clause substantially the same as the provision at 52.228-1, Bid Guarantee, in solicitations or contracts that require a bid guarantee or similar guarantee. For example, the contracting officer may modify this provision- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall determine the amount of the bid guarantee for insertion in the provision at 52.228-1 (see 28.102-2(a)). The amount shall be adequate to protect the Government from loss should the successful bidder fail to execute further contractual documents and bonds as required. The bid guarantee amount shall be at least 20 percent of the bid price but shall not exceed $3 million. When the penal sum is expressed as a percentage, a maximum dollar limitation may be stated.
52.243 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.1502 Policy. No subsections found.
52.247-42 C.i.f. Destination. (a) (a) The term "c.i.f. destination," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered on board the ocean vessel to the specified point of destination, with the cost of transportation and marine insurance paid by the Contractor. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
42.504 Postaward letters. No subsections found.
52.216-9 Fixed Fee-Construction. (a) (a) The Government shall pay to the Contractor for performing this contract the fixed fee specified in the Schedule. (b) (b) Payment of the fixed fee shall be made in installments based upon the percentage of completion of the work as determined from estimates submitted to and approved by the Contracting Officer, but subject to the withholding provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. (c) (c) The Contracting Officer shall withhold a reserve not to exceed 15 percent of the total fixed fee or $100,000, whichever is less, to protect the Government’s interest. The Contracting Officer shall release 75 percent of all fee withholds under this contract after receipt of an adequate certified final indirect cost rate proposal covering the year of physical completion of this contract, provided the Contractor has satisfied all other contract terms and conditions, including the submission of the final patent and royalty reports, and is not delinquent in submitting final vouchers on prior years’ settlements. The Contracting Officer may release up to 90 percent of the fee withholds under this contract based on the Contractor’s past performance related to the submission and settlement of final indirect cost rate proposals.
31.205-14 Entertainment costs. No subsections found.
32.201 Statutory authority. No subsections found.
52.241-12 Nonrefundable, Nonrecurring Service Charge. No subsections found.
12.202 Market research and description of agency need. (a) (a) Market research (see 10.001) is an essential element of building an effective strategy for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services and establishes the foundation for the agency description of need (see part  11), the solicitation, and resulting contract. (b) (b) The description of agency need must contain sufficient detail for potential offerors of commercial products or commercial services to know which commercial products or commercial services may be suitable. Generally, for acquisitions in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, an agency’s statement of need for a commercial product or commercial service will describe the type of commercial product or commercial service to be acquired and explain how the agency intends to use the product or service in terms of function to be performed, performance requirement or essential physical characteristics. Describing the agency’s needs in these terms allows offerors to propose methods that will best meet the needs of the Government. (c) (c) Follow the procedures in subpart  11.2 regarding the identification and availability of specifications, standards and commercial item descriptions. (d) (d) Requirements documents shall identify the applicable information and communication technology accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194.1 (see 11.002(f) and subpart  39.2). (e) (e) When acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, agencies must include the appropriate Internet Protocol compliance requirements in accordance with 11.002(g).
19.502-8 Rejecting Small Business Administration recommendations. (a) (a) If the contracting officer rejects a recommendation of the SBA, written notice shall be furnished to the appropriate SBA representative within 5 working days of the contracting officer's receipt of the recommendation. (b) (b) The SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) may appeal the contracting officer's rejection to the head of the contracting activity within 2 working days after receiving the notice (except see 19.1305(d), 19.1405(e), and 19.1505(i)). The head of the contracting activity  shall render a decision in writing, and provide it to the SBA representative within 7 working days. Pending issuance of a decision to the SBA representative, the contracting officer shall suspend action on the acquisition. (c) (c) If the head of the contracting activity agrees that the contracting officer’s rejection was appropriate- (d) (d) When the contracting officer has been notified within the 15-day period that the SBA has appealed to the agency head, the head of the contracting activity (or designee) shall forward justification for its decision to the agency head. The contracting officer shall suspend contract action until notification is received that the SBA appeal has been settled. (e) (e) The agency head shall reply to the SBA within 30 working days after receiving the appeal. The decision of the agency head shall be final. (f) (f) A request to suspend action on an acquisition need not be honored if the contracting officer determines that proceeding to contract award and performance is in the public interest. The contracting officer shall include in the contract file a statement of the facts justifying the determination, and shall promptly notify the SBA representative of the determination and provide a copy of the justification.
3.602 Exceptions. No subsections found.
49.303-1 Submission of settlement proposal. (a) (a) Finally disallowed by the contracting officer; or (b) (b) Previously vouchered and formally questioned by the Government but not yet decided as to allowability.
35.017-5 Terminating an FFRDC. No subsections found.
Subpart 42.11 - Production Surveillance and Reporting No subsections found.
37.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
25.200 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart implements- (b) (b) It applies to contracts for the construction, alteration, or repair of any public building or public work in the United States. (c) (c) When using funds appropriated or otherwise provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act) for construction, see subpart  25.6.
7.305 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall, when soliciting offers and tenders, insert in solicitations issued for standard competitions the provision at 52.207-1, Notice of Standard Competition. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall, when soliciting offers, insert in solicitations issued for streamlined competitions the provision at 52.207-2, Notice of Streamlined Competition. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.207-3, Right of First Refusal of Employment, in all solicitations which may result in a conversion from in-house performance to contract performance of work currently being performed by the Government and in contracts that result from the solicitations, whether or not a public-private competition is conducted. The 10-day period in the clause may be varied by the contracting officer up to a period of 90 days.
43.202 Authority to issue change orders. No subsections found.
5.504 Use of advertising agencies. (a) (a) General. Basic ordering agreements may be placed with advertising agencies for assistance in producing and placing advertisements when a significant number will be placed in several publications and in national media. Services of advertising agencies include, but are not limited to, counseling as to selection of the media for placement of the advertisement, contacting the media in the interest of the Government, placing orders, selecting and ordering typography, copywriting, and preparing rough layouts. (b) (b) Use of commission-paying media. The services of advertising agencies in placing advertising with media often can be obtained at no cost to the Government, over and above the space cost, as many media give advertising agencies a commission or discount on the space cost that is not given to the Government. (c) (c) Use of noncommission-paying media. Some media do not grant advertising agencies a commission or discount, meaning the Government can obtain the same rate as the advertising agency. If the advertising agency agrees to place advertisements in noncommission-paying media as a no-cost service, the basic ordering agreement shall so provide. If the advertising agency will not agree to place advertisements at no cost, the agreement shall- (d) (d) Art work, supplies, and incidentals. The basic ordering agreement also may provide for the furnishing by the advertising agency of art work, supplies, and incidentals, including brochures and pamphlets, but not their printing. "Incidentals" may include telephone calls, and postage incurred by the advertising agency on behalf of the Government.
49.405 Completion by another contractor. No subsections found.
14.104 Types of contracts. No subsections found.
52.242-7 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 5.5 - Paid Advertisements No subsections found.
23.106 Exemptions. (a) (a) The Director of National Intelligence may exempt an intelligence activity of the United States and related personnel, resources, and facilities to the extent the Director determines necessary to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. (b) (b) The head of an agency may exempt the following: (c) (c) Contracting officers are encouraged, but not required, to procure sustainable products and services if the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster. (d) (d) The head of the agency may submit to the President, through the Chair of CEQ, a request for an exemption of an agency activity, and related personnel, resources, and facilities from this subpart for any reason not otherwise addressed in this section.
50.102-3 Limitations on exercise of authority. (a) (a) Pub. L. 85-804 is not authority for- (b) (b) No contract, amendment, or modification shall be made under Pub. L. 85-804’s authority- (c) (c) No contract shall be amended or modified unless the contractor submits a request before all obligations (including final payment) under the contract have been discharged. No amendment or modification shall increase the contract price to an amount higher than the lowest rejected bid of any responsible bidder, if the contract was negotiated under 14.404-1(f). (d) (d) No informal commitment shall be formalized unless- (e) (e) The exercise of authority by officials below the secretarial level is subject to the following additional limitations: (f) (f) No executive department or agency shall exercise the indemnification authority granted under paragraph 1 A of E.O. 10789 with respect to any supply or service that has been, or could be, designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security as a qualified anti-terrorism technology unless-
45.104 Responsibility and liability for Government property. (a) (a) Generally, contractors are not held liable for loss of Government property under the following types of contracts: (b) (b) The contracting officer may revoke the Government’s assumption of risk when the property administrator determines that the contractor’s property management practices are noncompliant with contract requirements. (c) (c) A prime contractor that provides Government property to a subcontractor shall not be relieved of any responsibility to the Government that the prime contractor may have under the terms of the prime contract. (d) (d) With respect to loss of Government property, the contracting officer, in consultation with the property administrator, shall determine- (e) (e) Any monies received as financial restitution shall be credited to the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts, unless otherwise authorized by statute ( 31 U.S.C. 3302(b)).
Part 7 - Acquisition Planning No subsections found.
22.403-4 Executive Orders 13658 and 14026. No subsections found.
27.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
5.403 Requests from Members of Congress. No subsections found.
49.502 Termination for convenience of the Government. (a) (a) Fixed-price contracts that do not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold (short form)- (b) (b) Fixed-price contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold- (c) (c) Service contracts (short form). The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.249-4, Termination for Convenience of the Government (Services) (Short Form), in solicitations and contracts for services, regardless of value, when a fixed-price contract is contemplated and the contracting officer determines that because of the kind of services required, the successful offeror will not incur substantial charges in preparation for and in carrying out the contract, and would, if terminated for the convenience of the Government, limit termination settlement charges to services rendered before the date of termination. Examples of services where this clause may be appropriate are contracts for rental of unreserved parking space, laundry and dry cleaning, etc. (d) (d) Research and development contracts. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.249-5, Termination for the Convenience of the Government (Educational and Other Nonprofit Institutions), in solicitations and contracts when either a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated for research and development work with an educational or nonprofit institution on a nonprofit or no-fee basis. (e) (e) Subcontracts-
32.409-1 Recommendation for approval. (a) (a) Contract data, including- (b) (b) The contractor’s request and supporting information. (c) (c) A report on the contractor’s past performance, responsibility, technical ability, and plant capacity. (d) (d) Comments on- (e) (e) Proposed advance payment contract terms, including proposed security requirements. (f) (f) The findings, determination, and authorization (see 32.410). (g) (g) The recommendation for approval of the advance payment request. (h) (h) Justification of any proposal for waiver of interest charges (see 32.407).
52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference. No subsections found.
47.305-1 Solicitation requirements. (a) (a) Modes of transportation and, if rail transportation is used, names of rail carriers serving the offeror’s facility. (b) (b) The number of railroad cars, motor trucks, or other conveyances that can be loaded per day. (c) (c) Type of packaging; e.g., box, carton, crate, drum, bundle, skids, and when applicable, package number from the governing freight classification. (d) (d) Number of units packed in one container. (e) (e) Guaranteed maximum shipping weight; cubic measurement; and length, width, and height of each container. (f) (f) Minimum size of each shipment. (g) (g) Number of containers or units that can be loaded in a car, truck, or other conveyance of the size normally used (specify type and size) for the commodity. (h) (h) Description of material in terms of the governing freight classification or tariff (or Government rate tender) under which lowest freight rates are applicable. (i) (i) Benefits available to the Government under transit arrangements made by the offeror. (j) (j) Other requirements as stated under specific section headings.
23.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 4.2 - Contract Distribution No subsections found.
31.201 General. No subsections found.
22.1026 Disputes concerning labor standards. No subsections found.
50.103-4 Facts and evidence. (a) (a) General. When it is appropriate, the contracting officer or other agency official shall request the contractor to support any request made under 50.103-3(a) with any of the following information: (b) (b) Amendments without consideration-essentiality a factor. When a request involves possible amendment without consideration, and essentiality to the national defense is a factor (50.103-2(a)(1)), the contractor may be asked to furnish, in addition to the facts and evidence listed in paragraph (a) of this subsection, any of the following information: (c) (c) Amendments without consideration-essentiality not a factor. When a request involves possible amendment without consideration because of Government action, and essentiality to the national defense is not a factor (50.103-2(a)(2)), the contractor may be asked to furnish, in addition to the facts and evidence listed in paragraph (a) of this subsection, any of the following information: (d) (d) Correcting mistakes. When a request involves possible correction of a mistake (50.103-2(b)), the contractor may be asked to furnish, in addition to the facts and evidence listed in paragraph (a) of this subsection, any of the following information: (e) (e) Formalizing informal commitments. When a request involves possible formalizing of an informal commitment (50.103-2(c)), the contractor may be asked to furnish, in addition to the facts and evidence listed in paragraph (a) of this subsection, any of the following information:
1.104 Applicability. No subsections found.
9.102 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to all proposed contracts with any prospective contractor that is located- (b) (b) This subpart does not apply to proposed contracts with-
14.404-4 Restrictions on disclosure of descriptive literature. No subsections found.
Subpart 42.2 - Contract Administration Services No subsections found.
3.705 Procedures. (a) (a) Reporting. The facts concerning any final conviction for any violation of 18 U.S.C. 201-224 involving or relating to agency contracts shall be reported promptly to the agency head or designee for that official’s consideration. The agency head or designee shall promptly notify the Civil Division, Department of Justice, that the action is being considered under this subpart. (b) (b) Decision. Following an assessment of the facts, the agency head or designee may declare void and rescind contracts with respect to which a final conviction has been entered, and recover the amounts expended and the property transferred by the agency under the terms of the contracts involved. (c) (c) Decision-making process. Agency procedures governing the voiding and rescinding decision-making process shall be as informal as practicable, consistent with the principles of fundamental fairness. As a minimum, however, agencies shall provide the following: (d) (d) Notice of proposed action. The notice of proposed action, as a minimum shall- (e) (e) Final agency decision. The final agency decision shall be based on the information available to the agency head or designee, including any pertinent information submitted or, if a hearing was held, presented at the hearing. If the agency decision declares void and rescinds the contract, the final decision shall specify the amounts due and property to be returned to the agency, and reflect consideration of the fair value of any tangible benefits received and retained by the agency. Notice of the decision shall be sent promptly by certified mail, return receipt requested. Rescission of contracts under the authority of the Act and demand for recovery of the amounts expended and property transferred therefor, is not a claim within the meaning of 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, Contract Disputes, or part  33. Therefore, the procedures required by the statute and the FAR for the issuance of a final contracting officer decision are not applicable to final agency decisions under this subpart, and shall not be followed.
17.801 Definitions. No subsections found.
37.107 Service Contract Labor Standards. No subsections found.
22.604-2 Regulatory exemptions. (a) (a) Contracts for the following acquisitions are fully exempt from the statute (see 41 CFR50-201.603): (b) (b)
7.202  Policy. (a) (a) Agencies are required by 10 U.S.C. 3242 and 41 U.S.C.3310 to procure supplies in such quantity as- (b) (b) Each solicitation for a contract for supplies is required, if practicable, to include a provision inviting each offeror responding to the solicitation-
46.801 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart does not apply to commercial products and commercial services. This subpart applies to contracts other than those for— (b) (b) See subpart  46.7, Warranties, for policies and procedures concerning contractor liability caused by nonconforming technical data.
16.602 Labor-hour contracts. No subsections found.
51.105 Payment for shipments. No subsections found.
Subpart 22.19 - Increasing the Minimum Wage for Contractors No subsections found.
3.103-3 The need for further certifications. No subsections found.
16.402-2 Performance incentives. (a) (a) Performance incentives may be considered in connection with specific product characteristics (e.g.,a missile range, an aircraft speed, an engine thrust, or a vehicle maneuverability) or other specific elements of the contractor’s performance. These incentives should be designed to relate profit or fee to results achieved by the contractor, compared with specified targets. (b) (b) To the maximum extent practicable, positive and negative performance incentives shall be considered in connection with service contracts for performance of objectively measurable tasks when quality of performance is critical and incentives are likely to motivate the contractor. (c) (c) Technical performance incentives may be particularly appropriate in major systems contracts, both in development (when performance objectives are known and the fabrication of prototypes for test and evaluation is required) and in production (if improved performance is attainable and highly desirable to the Government). (d) (d) Technical performance incentives may involve a variety of specific characteristics that contribute to the overall performance of the end item. Accordingly, the incentives on individual technical characteristics must be balanced so that no one of them is exaggerated to the detriment of the overall performance of the end item. (e) (e) Performance tests and/or assessments of work performance are generally essential in order to determine the degree of attainment of performance targets. Therefore, the contract must be as specific as possible in establishing test criteria (such as testing conditions, instrumentation precision, and data interpretation) and performance standards (such as the quality levels of services to be provided). (f) (f) Because performance incentives present complex problems in contract administration, the contracting officer should negotiate them in full coordination with Government engineering and pricing specialists. (g) (g) It is essential that the Government and contractor agree explicitly on the effect that contract changes (e.g., pursuant to the Changes clause) will have on performance incentives. (h) (h) The contracting officer must exercise care, in establishing performance criteria, to recognize that the contractor should not be rewarded or penalized for attainments of Government-furnished components.
52.241-9 Connection Charge. (a) (a) Charge. In consideration of the Contractor furnishing and installing at its expense the new connection facilities described herein, the Government shall pay the Contractor a connection charge. The payment shall be in the form of progress payments, advance payments or as a lump sum, as agreed to by the parties and as permitted by applicable law. The total amount payable shall be either the estimated cost of $______ less the agreed to salvage value of $______, or the actual cost less the salvage value, whichever is less. As a condition precedent to final payment, the Contractor shall execute a release of any claims against the Government arising under or by the virtue of such installation. (b) (b) Ownership, operation, maintenance and repair of new facilities to be provided. The facilities to be supplied by the Contractor under this clause, notwithstanding the payment by the Government of a connection charge, shall be and remain the property of the Contractor and shall, at all times during the life of this contract or any renewals thereof, be operated, maintained, and repaired by the Contractor at its expense. All taxes and other charges in connection therewith, together with all liability arising out of the construction, operations, maintenance, or repair of such facilities, shall be the obligation of the Contractor. (c) (c) Credits. (d) (d) Termination before completion of facilities. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract at any time before completion of the facilities with respect to which the Government is to pay a connection charge. In the event the Government exercises this right, the Contractor shall be paid the cost of any work accomplished, including direct and indirect costs reasonably allocable to the completed work prior to the time of termination by the Government, plus the cost of removal, less the salvage value. (e) (e) Termination after completion of facilities. In the event the Government terminates this contract after completion of the facilities with respect to which the Government has paid a connection charge, but before the crediting in full by the Contractor of any connection charge in accordance with the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall have the following options:
52.204-21 Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Safeguarding requirements and procedures. (c) (c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in subcontracts under this contract (including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services, other than commercially available off-the-shelf items), in which the subcontractor may have Federal contract information residing in or transiting through its information system.
32.304-4 Guarantee amount and maturity. (a) (a) If the contractor enters into additional defense production contracts after the application for, but before authorization of, a guarantee, the agency may adjust the loan guarantee amount or maturity date to meet any significant increase in financing need. (b) (b) If the contractor enters into defense production contracts during the term of the guaranteed loan, the parties may adjust the existing guarantee agreement to provide for financing the new contracts. Pertinent information and the Federal Reserve Bank reports will be submitted to the guaranteeing agency under the procedures for the original guarantee application, described in 32.304-1. Normally, a new certificate of eligibility is required.
19.1306 HUBZone sole-source awards. (a) (a) A contracting officer shall consider a contract award to a HUBZone small business concern on a sole-source basis (see 6.302-5(b)(5)) before considering a small business set-aside (see 19.203 and subpart 19.5), provided none of the exclusions at 19.1304 apply; and- (b) (b) The SBA has the right to appeal the contracting officer’s decision not to make a HUBZone sole-source award (see 13 CFR 126.610).
46.104 Contract administration office responsibilities. (a) (a) Develop and apply efficient procedures for performing Government contract quality assurance actions under the contract in accordance with the written direction of the contracting office; (b) (b) Perform all actions necessary to verify whether the supplies or services conform to contract quality requirements; (c) (c) Maintain, as part of the performance records of the contract, suitable records reflecting- (d) (d) Implement any specific written instructions from the contracting office; (e) (e) Report to the contracting office any defects observed in design or technical requirements, including contract quality requirements; and (f) (f) Recommend any changes necessary to the contract, specifications, instructions, or other requirements that will provide more effective operations or eliminate unnecessary costs (see 46.103(c)).
13.403 Preparation and execution of orders. (a) (a) A requirement that the supplies be shipped transportation or postage prepaid. (b) (b) A requirement that invoices be submitted directly to the finance or other office designated in the order, or in the case of unpriced purchase orders, to the contracting officer (see 13.302-2(c)). (c) (c) The following statement on the consignee’s copy:
36.601 Policy. No subsections found.
42.403 Evaluation of contract administration offices. No subsections found.
22.1405 Collective bargaining agreements. No subsections found.
Part 12 - Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
17.104 General. (a) (a) Multi-year contracting is a special contracting method to acquire known requirements in quantities and total cost not over planned requirements for up to 5 years unless otherwise authorized by statute, even though the total funds ultimately to be obligated may not be available at the time of contract award. This method may be used in sealed bidding or contracting by negotiation. (b) (b) Multi-year contracting is a flexible contracting method applicable to a wide range of acquisitions. The extent to which cancellation terms are used in multi-year contracts will depend on the unique circumstances of each contract. Accordingly, for multi-year contracts, the agency head may authorize modification of the requirements of this subpart and the clause at 52.217-2, Cancellation Under Multi-year Contracts. (c) (c) Agency funding of multiyear contracts shall conform to the policies in OMB Circular A-11 (Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget) and other applicable guidance regarding the funding of multiyear contracts. As provided by that guidance, the funds obligated for multi-year contracts must be sufficient to cover any potential cancellation and/or termination costs; and multi-year contracts for the acquisition of fixed assets should be fully funded or funded in stages that are economically or programmatically viable. (d) (d) The termination for convenience procedure may apply to any Government contract, including multiyear contracts. As contrasted with cancellation, termination can be effected at any time during the life of the contract (cancellation is effected between fiscal years) and can be for the total quantity or partial quantity (where as cancellation must be for all subsequent fiscal years’ quantities).
18.121 Bid guarantees. No subsections found.
32.306 Loan guarantees for subcontracts. No subsections found.
29.401-1 Indefinite-delivery contracts for leased equipment. (a) (a) A fixed-price indefinite-delivery contract is contemplated; (b) (b) The contract will be performed wholly or partly in the United States or its outlying areas; and (c) (c) The place or places of delivery are not known at the time of contracting.
28.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
40.202 Prohibition on the procurement and operation of unmanned aircraft systems manufactured or assembled by American Security Drone Act-covered foreign entities. s. (a) (a) Section 40.202 prescribes policies and procedures regarding the procurement and operation of unmanned aircraft systems, which includes unmanned aircraft (i.e., drones) and associated elements. (b) (b) The authorities in 40.202 expire on December 22, 2028 (section 1833 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.).
4.1705 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-14, Service Contract Reporting Requirements, in solicitations and contracts for services (including construction) that meet or exceed the thresholds at 4.1703, except for indefinite-delivery contracts. This clause is not required for actions entirely funded by DoD, contracts awarded with a generic entity identifier, or in classified solicitations, contracts, or orders. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-15, Service Contract Reporting Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts, in solicitations and indefinite-delivery contracts for services (including construction) where one or more orders issued thereunder are expected to each meet or exceed the thresholds at 4.1703. This clause is not required for actions entirely funded by DoD, contracts awarded with a generic entity identifier, or in classified solicitations, contracts, or orders.
Subpart 27.3 - Patent Rights under Government Contracts No subsections found.
28.309 Contract clauses for workers’ compensation insurance. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.228-3, Workers’ Compensation Insurance (Defense Base Act), in solicitations and contracts when the Defense Base Act applies (see 28.305) and- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.228-4, Worker’s Compensation and War-Hazard Insurance Overseas, in solicitations and contracts when the contract will be a public-work contract performed outside the United States and the Secretary of Labor waives the applicability of the Defense Base Act (see 28.305(d)).
52.247-37 F.o.b. Vessel, Port of Shipment. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. vessel, port of shipment," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government loaded, stowed, and trimmed on board the ocean vessel at the specified port of shipment. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
52.204-5 Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). (a) (a) Definition."Women-owned business concern," as used in this provision, means a concern that is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (b) (b) Representation. [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and has not represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of FAR 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations, of this solicitation.] The offeror represents that it □ is a women-owned business concern.
52.223-17 [Reserved] No subsections found.
3.1000 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Implements 41 U.S.C. 3509, Notification of Violations of Federal Criminal Law or Overpayments; and (b) (b) Prescribes policies and procedures for the establishment of contractor codes of business ethics and conduct, and display of agency Office of Inspector General (OIG) fraud hotline posters.
52.215-7 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 36.1 - General No subsections found.
52.237-3 Continuity of Services. (a) (a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption and that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Government or another contractor, may continue them. The Contractor agrees to- (b) (b) The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer’s written notice, (1) furnish phase-in, phase-out services for up to 90 days after this contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in, phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described in the plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer’s approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during the phase-in, phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency. (c) (c) The Contractor shall allow as many personnel as practicable to remain on the job to help the successor maintain the continuity and consistency of the services required by this contract. The Contractor also shall disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor to conduct on-site interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor shall release them at a mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor. (d) (d) The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the fee (profit) under this contract.
14.503-2 Step two. (a) (a) Sealed bidding procedures shall be followed except that invitations for bids shall- (b) (b) The names of firms that submitted acceptable proposals in step one will be listed through the GPE for the benefit of prospective subcontractors (see 5.207).
52.232-39 Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligations. (a) (a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract is subject to any End User License Agreement (EULA), Terms of Service (TOS), or similar legal instrument or agreement, that includes any clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation (31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern: (b) (b) Paragraph (a) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures.
8.604 Waivers. (a) (a) General or blanket waivers issued when classes of supplies are not available from FPI. (b) (b) Formal waivers issued in response to requests from offices desiring to acquire, from other sources, supplies listed in the FPI Schedule and not covered by a general waiver. Agencies shall process waiver requests in accordance with the procedures at http://www.unicor.gov.
Subpart 14.5 - Two-Step Sealed Bidding No subsections found.
15.407-1 Defective certified cost or pricing data. (a) (a) If, before agreement on price, the contracting officer learns that any certified cost or pricing data submitted are inaccurate, incomplete, or noncurrent, the contracting officer shall immediately bring the matter to the attention of the prospective contractor, whether the defective data increase or decrease the contract price. The contracting officer shall consider any new data submitted to correct the deficiency, or consider the inaccuracy, incompleteness, or noncurrency of the data when negotiating the contract price. The price negotiation memorandum shall reflect the adjustments made to the data or the corrected data used to negotiate the contract price. (b) (b) (c) (c) If, after award, the contracting officer learns or suspects that the data furnished were not accurate, complete, and current, or were not adequately verified by the contractor as of the time of negotiation, the contracting officer shall request an audit to evaluate the accuracy, completeness, and currency of the data. The Government may evaluate the profit-cost relationships only if the audit reveals that the data certified by the contractor were defective. The contracting officer shall not reprice the contract solely because the profit was greater than forecast or because a contingency specified in the submission failed to materialize. (d) (d) For each advisory audit received based on a postaward review that indicates defective pricing, the contracting officer shall make a determination as to whether or not the data submitted were defective and relied upon. Before making such a determination, the contracting officer should give the contractor an opportunity to support the accuracy, completeness, and currency of the data in question. The contracting officer shall prepare a memorandum documenting both the determination and any corrective action taken as a result. The contracting officer shall send one copy of this memorandum to the auditor and, if the contract has been assigned for administration, one copy to the administrative contracting officer (ACO). A copy of the memorandum or other notice of the contracting officer’s determination shall be provided to the contractor. When the contracting officer determines that the contractor submitted defective cost or pricing data, the contracting officer, in accordance with agency procedures, shall ensure that information relating to the contracting officer’s final determination is reported in accordance with 42.1503(h). Agencies shall ensure updated information that changes a contracting officer’s prior final determination is reported into the FAPIIS module of Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) in the event of a— (e) (e) If both the contractor and subcontractor submitted, and the contractor certified, or should have certified, cost or pricing data, the Government has the right, under the clauses at 52.215-10, Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data, and 52.215-11, Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications, to reduce the prime contract price if it was significantly increased because a subcontractor submitted defective data. This right applies whether these data supported subcontract cost estimates or supported firm agreements between subcontractor and contractor. (f) (f) If Government audit discloses defective subcontractor certified cost or pricing data, the information necessary to support a reduction in prime contract and subcontract prices may be available only from the Government. To the extent necessary to secure a prime contract price reduction, the contracting officer should make this information available to the prime contractor or appropriate subcontractors, upon request. If release of the information would compromise Government security or disclose trade secrets or confidential business information, the contracting officer shall release it only under conditions that will protect it from improper disclosure. Information made available under this paragraph shall be limited to that used as the basis for the prime contract price reduction. In order to afford an opportunity for corrective action, the contracting officer should give the prime contractor reasonable advance notice before determining to reduce the prime contract price.
11.202 Maintenance of standardization documents. (a) (a) Recommendations for changes to standardization documents listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions should be submitted to the- (b) (b) When an agency cites an existing standardization document but modifies it to meet its needs, the agency shall follow the guidance in Federal Standardization Manual and, for Defense components, DoD Manual 4120.24, Defense Standardization Program (DSP) Procedures.
26.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
22.1008-2 Successorship with incumbent contractor collective bargaining agreement. (a) (a) Early in the acquisition cycle, the contracting officer shall determine whether 41 U.S.C. 6707(c) affects the new acquisition. The contracting officer shall determine whether there is a predecessor contract covered by the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and, if so, whether the incumbent prime contractor or its subcontractors and any of their employees have a collective bargaining agreement. (b) (b) 41 U.S.C. 6707(c) provides that a successor contractor must pay wages and fringe benefits (including accrued wages and benefits and prospective increases) to service employees at least equal to those agreed upon by a predecessor contractor under the following conditions: (c) (c) The application of 41 U.S.C. 6707(c) is subject to the following limitations: (d) (d) (e) (e) (f) (f) If the services are being furnished at more than one location and the collectively bargained wage rates and fringe benefits are different at different locations or do not apply to one or more locations, the contracting officer shall identify the locations to which the agreements apply. (g) (g) If the collective bargaining agreement does not apply to all service employees under the contract, the contracting officer shall access Wage Determinations at SAM.gov to obtain the prevailing wage determination for those service employee classifications that are not covered by the collective bargaining agreement. The contracting officer shall separately list in the solicitation and contract the service employee classifications-
34.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
52.226-1 Utilization of Indian Organizations and Indian-Owned Economic Enterprises. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause: (b) (b) The Contractor shall use its best efforts to give Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises (25 U.S.C. 1544) the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in the subcontracts it awards to the fullest extent consistent with efficient performance of its contract. (c) (c) The Contracting Officer, subject to the terms and conditions of the contract and the availability of funds, will authorize an incentive payment of 5 percent of the amount paid to the subcontractor. The Contracting Officer will seek funding in accordance with agency procedures.
42.1503 Procedures. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) Agency evaluations of contractor performance, including both negative and positive evaluations, prepared under this subpart shall be provided to the contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation. The contractor will receive a CPARS-system generated notification when an evaluation is ready for comment. Contractors shall be afforded up to 14 calendar days from the date of notification of availability of the past performance evaluation to submit comments, rebutting statements, or additional information. Agencies shall provide for review at a level above the contracting officer to consider disagreements between the parties regarding the evaluation. The ultimate conclusion on the performance evaluation is a decision of the contracting agency. Copies of the evaluation, contractor response, and review comments, if any, shall be retained as part of the evaluation. These evaluations may be used to support future award decisions, and should therefore be marked "Source Selection Information". Evaluation of Federal Prison Industries (FPI) performance may be used to support a waiver request (see 8.604) when FPI is a mandatory source in accordance with subpart  8.6. The completed evaluation shall not be released to other than Government personnel and the contractor whose performance is being evaluated during the period the information may be used to provide source selection information. Disclosure of such information could cause harm both to the commercial interest of the Government and to the competitive position of the contractor being evaluated as well as impede the efficiency of Government operations. Evaluations used in determining award or incentive fee payments may also be used to satisfy the requirements of this subpart. A copy of the annual or final past performance evaluation shall be provided to the contractor as soon as it is finalized. (e) (e) Agencies shall require frequent evaluation (e.g., monthly, quarterly) of agency compliance with the reporting requirements in 42.1502, so agencies can readily identify delinquent past performance reports and monitor their reports for quality control. (f) (f) Agencies shall prepare and submit all past performance evaluations electronically in CPARS at https://www.cpars.gov. These evaluations, including any contractor-submitted information (with indication whether agency review is pending), become available for source selection officials not later than 14 days after the date on which the contractor is notified of the evaluation's availability for comment. The Government shall update CPARS with any contractor comments provided after 14 days, as well as any subsequent agency review of comments received. Past performance evaluations for classified contracts and special access programs shall not be reported in CPARS, but will be reported as stated in this subpart and in accordance with agency procedures. Agencies shall ensure that appropriate management and technical controls are in place to ensure that only authorized personnel have access to the data and the information safeguarded in accordance with 42.1503(d). (g) (g) Agencies shall use the past performance information in CPARS. that is within three years (six for construction and architect-engineer contracts) of the completion of performance of the evaluated contract or order, and information contained in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), e.g., terminations for default or cause. (h) (h) Other contractor performance information.
52.236 [Reserved] No subsections found.
16.503 Requirements contracts. (a) (a) Description. A requirements contract provides for filling all actual purchase requirements of designated Government activities for supplies or services during a specified contract period (from one contractor), with deliveries or performance to be scheduled by placing orders with the contractor. (b) (b) Application. (c) (c) Government property furnished for repair. When a requirements contract is used to acquire work (e.g., repair, modification, or overhaul) on existing items of Government property, the contracting officer shall specify in the Schedule that failure of the Government to furnish such items in the amounts or quantities described in the Schedule as "estimated" or "maximum" will not entitle the contractor to any equitable adjustment in price under the Government Property clause of the contract. (d) (d) Limitations on use of requirements contracts for advisory and assistance services.
7.103 Agency-head responsibilities. (a) (a) Promoting and providing for full and open competition (see part  6) or, when full and open competition is not required in accordance with part  6, for obtaining competition to the maximum extent practicable, with due regard to the nature of the supplies and services to be acquired (10 U.S.C. 3206(a)(1) and 41 U.S.C. 3306(a)(1)). (b) (b) Encouraging offerors to supply commercial products or commercial services, or to the extent that commercial products suitable, to meet the agency needs are not available, nondevelopmental items in response to agency solicitations (10 U.S.C. 3453 and 41 U.S.C. 3307). (c) (c) Ensuring that acquisition planners address the requirement to specify needs, develop specifications, and to solicit offers in such a manner to promote and provide for full and open competition with due regard to the nature of the supplies and services to be acquired (10 U.S.C. 3206(a)(1) and 41 U.S.C. 3306(a)(1)). (See part  6 and 10.002.) (d) (d) Ensuring that acquisition planners document the file to support the selection of the contract type in accordance with subpart 16.1. (e) (e) Establishing criteria and thresholds at which increasingly greater detail and formality in the planning process is required as the acquisition becomes more complex and costly, including for cost-reimbursement and other high-risk contracts (e.g., other than firm-fixed-price contracts) requiring a written acquisition plan. A written plan shall be prepared for cost reimbursement and other high-risk contracts other than firm-fixed-price contracts, although written plans may be required for firm-fixed-price contracts as appropriate. (f) (f) Ensuring that the statement of work is closely aligned with performance outcomes and cost estimates. (g) (g) Writing plans either on a systems basis, on an individual contract basis, or on an individual order basis, depending upon the acquisition. (h) (h) Ensuring that the principles of this subpart are used, as appropriate, for those acquisitions that do not require a written plan as well as for those that do. (i) (i) Designating planners for acquisitions. (j) (j) Reviewing and approving acquisition plans and revisions to these plans to ensure compliance with FAR requirements including 7.104 and part 16. For other than firm-fixed-price contracts, ensuring that the plan is approved and signed at least one level above the contracting officer. (k) (k) Establishing criteria and thresholds at which design-to-cost and life-cycle-cost techniques will be used. (l) (l) Establishing standard acquisition plan formats, if desired, suitable to agency needs. (m) (m) Waiving requirements of detail and formality, as necessary, in planning for acquisitions having compressed delivery or performance schedules because of the urgency of the need. (n) (n) Assuring that the contracting officer, prior to contracting, reviews: (o) (o) Ensuring that agency planners include use of the metric system of measurement in proposed acquisitions in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 205b (see 11.002(b)) and agency metric plans and guidelines. (p) (p) Ensuring that agency planners- (q) (q) Ensuring that acquisition planners specify needs and develop plans, drawings, work statements, specifications, or other product or service requirements (e.g., help desks, call centers, training services, and automated self-service technical support) descriptions that address information and communication technology (ICT) accessibility standards (see 36 CFR 1194.1) in proposed acquisitions and that these standards are included in requirements planning (see subpart  39.2). (r) (r) Making a determination, prior to issuance of a solicitation for advisory and assistance services involving the analysis and evaluation of proposals submitted in response to a solicitation, that a sufficient number of covered personnel with the training and capability to perform an evaluation and analysis of proposals submitted in response to a solicitation are not readily available within the agency or from another Federal agency in accordance with the guidelines at 37.204. (s) (s) Ensuring that no purchase request is initiated or contract entered into that would result in the performance of an inherently governmental function by a contractor and that all contracts or orders are adequately managed so as to ensure effective official control over contract or order performance. (t) (t) Ensuring that knowledge gained from prior acquisitions is used to further refine requirements and acquisition strategies. For services, greater use of performance-based acquisition methods should occur for follow-on acquisitions. (u) (u) Ensuring that acquisition planners, to the maximum extent practicable- (v) (v) Ensuring that agency planners on information technology acquisitions comply with the capital planning and investment control requirements in 40 U.S.C. 11312 and OMB Circular A-130. (w) (w) Ensuring that agency planners on information technology acquisitions comply with the information technology security requirements in the Federal Information Security Management Act (44 U.S.C. 3544), OMB’s implementing policies including Appendix III of OMB Circular A-130, and guidance and standards from the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology. (x) (x) Ensuring that agency planners use project labor agreements when required (see subpart 22.5 and 36.104 Policy.). (y) (y) Ensuring that contracting officers consult the Disaster Response Registry via https://www.sam.gov, Search Records, Advanced Search, Disaster Response Registry Search as a part of acquisition planning for debris removal, distribution of supplies, reconstruction, and other disaster or emergency relief activities inside the United States and outlying areas. (See 26.205).
23.109 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) General. Insert the clause at 52.223-23, Sustainable Products and Services, in solicitations and contracts— (b) (b) EPA-designated items. Except for the acquisition of COTS items— (c) (c) Biobased products in USDA-designated product categories. (d) (d) Products containing ozone-depleting substances and hydrofluorocarbons. Except for contracts for supplies that will be delivered outside the United States and its outlying areas, or contracts for services that will be performed outside the United States and its outlying areas, insert the following clauses:
51.204 Use of interagency fleet management system (IFMS) vehicles and related services. No subsections found.
52.242-8 [Reserved] No subsections found.
7.107-2 Consolidation. (a) (a) Consolidation may provide substantial benefits to the Government. However, because of the potential impact on small business participation, before conducting an acquisition that is a consolidation of requirements with an estimated total dollar value exceeding $2 million, the senior procurement executive (SPE) or chief acquisition officer (CAO) shall make a written determination that the consolidation is necessary and justified in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 657q, after ensuring that- (b) (b) The SPE or CAO may determine that the consolidation is necessary and justified if the benefits of the acquisition would substantially exceed the benefits that would be derived from each of the alternative contracting approaches identified under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, including benefits that are quantifiable in dollar amounts as well as any other specifically identified benefits. (c) (c) Such benefits may include cost savings or price reduction and, regardless of whether quantifiable in dollar amounts- (d) (d) Benefits. (e) (e) (f) (f) If a determination is made that consolidation is necessary and justified, the contracting officer shall include it in the acquisition strategy documentation and provide it to the Small Business Administration (SBA) upon request.
19.301-1 Representation by the offeror. (a) (a) (b) (b) An offeror is required to represent its size and socioeconomic status in writing to the contracting officer at the time of initial offer, (whether or not the offer includes price or the price is evaluated), including offers for— (c) (c) To be eligible for an award of an order under a basic ordering agreement or a BPA issued pursuant to part  13 as a small business concern identified in 19.000(a)(3), the offeror must be a small business concern identified in 19.000(a)(3) at the time of award of the order. (d) (d) To be eligible for an award under the HUBZone Program (see subpart  19.13), a HUBZone small business concern must be a HUBZone small business concern at the time of initial offer. (e) (e) Multiple-award contract representations: (f) (f) The contracting officer shall accept an offeror’s representation in a specific bid or proposal that it is a small business unless (1) another offeror or interested party challenges the concern’s small business representation or (2) the contracting officer has a reason to question the representation. Challenges of and questions concerning a specific representation shall be referred to the SBA in accordance with 19.302. (g) (g) An offeror’s representation that it is a small business is not binding on the SBA. If an offeror’s small business status is challenged, the SBA will evaluate the status of the concern and make a determination, which will be binding on the contracting officer, as to whether the offeror is a small business. A concern cannot become eligible for a specific award by taking action to meet the definition of a small business concern after the SBA has determined that it is not a small business. (h) (h) If the SBA determines that the status of a concern as a small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small business has been misrepresented in order to obtain a set-aside contract, an 8(a) subcontract, a subcontract that is to be included as part or all of a goal contained in a subcontracting plan, or a prime or subcontract to be awarded as a result, or in furtherance of any other provision of Federal law that specifically references Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act for a definition of program eligibility, the SBA may take action as specified in Sections 16(a) or 16(d) of the Act. If the SBA declines to take action, the agency may initiate the process. The SBA’s regulations on penalties for misrepresentations and false statements are contained in 13 CFR 121.108 for small business, 13 CFR 124.501 for 8(a) small business, 13 CFR 128.600 for veteran or service-disabled veteran-owned small business, 13 CFR 126.900 for HUBZone small business, and 13 CFR 127.700 for economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concerns and women-owned small business (WOSB) concerns eligible under the WOSB Program.
3.404 Contract clause. No subsections found.
Part 8 - Required Sources of Supplies and Services No subsections found.
47.503 Applicability. (a) (a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section and in 47.504, the Cargo Preference Acts of1904 and1954 described in 47.502(a) apply to the following cargoes: (b) (b) Government-owned supplies to be shipped commercially that are- (c) (c) The 50-percent requirement shall not prevent the use of privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels for transportation of up to 100 percent of the cargo subject to the Cargo Preference Act of1954.
52.211-15 Defense Priority	and Allocation Requirements. No subsections found.
32.902 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 50.1 - Extraordinary Contractual Actions No subsections found.
4.901 Definition. No subsections found.
9.203 QPL’s, QML’s, and QBL’s. (a) (a) Qualification and listing in a QPL, QML, or QBL is the process by which products are obtained from manufacturers or distributors, examined and tested for compliance with specification requirements, or manufacturers or potential offerors, are provided an opportunity to demonstrate their abilities to meet the standards specified for qualification. The names of successful products, manufacturers, or potential offerors are included on lists evidencing their status. Generally, qualification is performed in advance and independently of any specific acquisition action. After qualification, the products, manufacturers, or potential offerors are included in a Federal or Military QPL, QML, or QBL. (See 9.202(a)(2) with regard to any product, manufacturer, or potential offeror not yet included on an applicable list.) (b) (b) Specifications requiring a qualified product are included- (c) (c) Instructions concerning qualification procedures are included in the following publications: (d) (d) The publications in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section may be obtained from the address in 11.201(d)(1).
45.302 Contracts with foreign governments or international organizations. No subsections found.
Subpart 41.3 - Requests for Assistance No subsections found.
19.502-7 	Inclusion	of Federal Prison Industries, Inc. No subsections found.
49.603 Formats for termination for convenience settlement agreements. No subsections found.
19.800 General. (a) (a) Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)) established a program that authorizes the Small Business Administration (SBA) to enter into all types of contracts with other agencies and award subcontracts for performing those contracts to firms eligible for program participation. This program is the "8(a) Business Development Program," commonly referred to as the "8(a) program." A small business that is accepted into the 8(a) program is known as a "participant." SBA’s subcontractors are referred to as "8(a) contractors." As used in this subpart, an 8(a) contractor is an 8(a) participant that is currently performing on a Federal contract or order that was set aside for 8(a) participants. (b) (b) Contracts may be awarded to the SBA for performance by eligible 8(a) participants on either a sole source or competitive basis. (c) (c) Acting under the authority of the program, the SBA certifies to an agency that SBA is competent and responsible to perform a specific contract. The contracting officer has the discretion to award the contract to the SBA based upon mutually agreeable terms and conditions. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall comply with 19.203 before deciding to offer an acquisition to a small business concern under the 8(a) program. For acquisitions above the simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer shall consider 8(a) set-asides or sole source awards before considering small business set-asides. (e) (e) When SBA has delegated its 8(a) program contract execution authority to an agency, the contracting officer must refer to its agency supplement or other policy directives for appropriate guidance.
14.302 Bid submission. No subsections found.
5.702 Applicability. No subsections found.
32.610 Compromising debts. No subsections found.
52.240-1 Prohibition on Unmanned Aircraft Systems Manufactured or Assembled by American Security Drone Act-Covered Foreign Entities. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Prohibition. The Contractor is prohibited from— (c) (c) Procedures. The Contractor shall search SAM at https://www.sam.gov for the FASC-maintained list of American Security Drone Act-covered foreign entities prior to proposing, or using in performance of the contract, any unmanned aircraft system. Additionally, the Contractor shall ensure any effort or expenditure associated with a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system is consistent with a corresponding exemption, exception, or waiver determination expressly stated in the contract. (d) (d) Exemptions, exceptions, and waivers. The prohibitions in this clause do not apply where the agency has determined an exemption, exception, or waiver applies and the contract indicates that such a determination has been made. [See sections 1823 through 1825 and 1832 of Public Law 118-31 (41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.) for statutory requirements pertaining to exemptions, exceptions, and waivers.]. (e) (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts and other contractual instruments, including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
53.204-1 Safeguarding classified information within industry (DDForm254, DDForm441). (a) (a) DD Form 254(Department of Defense (DoD)), Contract Security Classification Specification. (See 4.403(c)(1).) (b) (b) DD Form 441(DoD), Security Agreement. (See paragraph (b) of the clause at 52.204-2.)
9.505-2 Preparing specifications or work statements. (a) (a) (b) (b)
39.106 Contract clause. No subsections found.
22.1002-6 Executive Order 13706. No subsections found.
31.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 7.3 - Contractor Versus Government Performance No subsections found.
46.202-3 Standard inspection requirements. (a) (a) Standard inspection requirements are contained in the clauses prescribed in 46.302 through 46.308, and in the product and service specifications that are included in solicitations and contracts. (b) (b) The clauses referred to in (a) of this section-
23.300 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Acquiring deliverable items, other than ammunition and explosives, that require the furnishing of data involving hazardous materials. Agencies may prescribe special procedures for ammunition and explosives. (b) (b) Providing notification of radioactive materials prior to delivery.
52.236-23 Responsibility of the Architect-Engineer Contractor. (a) (a) The Contractor shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, and the coordination of all designs, drawings, specifications, and other services furnished by the Contractor under this contract. The Contractor shall, without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its designs, drawings, specifications, and other services. (b) (b) Neither the Government’s review, approval or acceptance of, nor payment for, the services required under this contract shall be construed to operate as a waiver of any rights under this contract or of any cause of action arising out of the performance of this contract, and the Contractor shall be and remain liable to the Government in accordance with applicable law for all damages to the Government caused by the Contractor’s negligent performance of any of the services furnished under this contract. (c) (c) The rights and remedies of the Government provided for under this contract are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law. (d) (d) If the Contractor is comprised of more than one legal entity, each such entity shall be jointly and severally liable hereunder.
52.234-2 Notice of Earned Value Management System-Preaward Integrated Baseline Review. (a) (a) The offeror shall provide documentation that the Cognizant Federal Agency has determined that the proposed earned value management system (EVMS) complies with the EVMS guidelines in Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748(EIA-748) (current version at time of solicitation). (b) (b) If the offeror proposes to use a system that has not been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this provision, the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with the EVMS guidelines. (c) (c) Offerors shall identify the major subcontractors, or major subcontracted effort if major subcontractors have not been selected subject to the guidelines. The prime Contractor and the Government shall agree to subcontractors selected for application of the EVMS guidelines. (d) (d) The Government will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR), as designated by the agency, prior to contract award. The objective of the IBR is for the Government and the Contractor to jointly assess technical areas, such as the Contractor’s planning, to ensure complete coverage of the contract requirements, logical scheduling of the work activities, adequate resources, methodologies for earned value (budgeted cost for work performed (BCWP)), and identification of inherent risks.
11.103 Market acceptance. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. 3307(e) provides that, in accordance with agency procedures, the head of an agency may, under appropriate circumstances, require offerors to demonstrate that the items offered- (b) (b) Appropriate circumstances may, for example, include situations where the agency’s minimum need is for an item that has a demonstrated reliability, performance or product support record in a specified environment. Use of market acceptance is inappropriate when new or evolving items may meet the agency’s needs. (c) (c) In developing criteria for demonstrating that an item has achieved commercial market acceptance, the contracting officer shall ensure the criteria in the solicitation- (d) (d) Commercial market acceptance shall not be used as a sole criterion to evaluate whether an item meets the Government’s requirements. (e) (e) When commercial market acceptance is used, the contracting officer shall document the file to-
Subpart 17.4 - Leader Company Contracting No subsections found.
52.249-4 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Services) (Short Form). No subsections found.
48.104-3 Sharing collateral savings. (a) (a) The Government shares collateral savings with the contractor, unless the head of the contracting activity has determined that the cost of calculating and tracking collateral savings will exceed the benefits to be derived (see 48.201(e)). (b) (b) The contractor’s share of collateral savings may range from 20 to 100 percent of the estimated savings to be realized during a typical year of use but must not exceed the greater of- (c) (c) The contracting officer must determine the sharing rate for each VECP. (d) (d) In determining collateral savings, the contracting officer must consider any degradation of performance, service life, or capability.
52.222-20 	Contracts for Materials, Supplies,	Articles, and Equipment. (a) (a) All	stipulations required by 41 U.S.C. chapter 65 and	regulations issued by the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Chapter 50)	are incorporated by reference. These stipulations are subject to	all applicable rulings and interpretations of the Secretary of Labor	that are now, or may hereafter, be in effect. (b) (b) All employees	whose work relates to this contract shall be paid not less than	the minimum wage prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary	of Labor (41 CFR 50-202.2). Learners, student learners, apprentices,	and workers with disabilities may be employed at less than the prescribed	minimum wage (see 41 CFR 50-202.3) to the same extent that such employment	is permitted under section 14 of the Fair Labor Standards Act (41 U.S.C. 6508).
Subpart 4.14 - Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards No subsections found.
26.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
22.406-12 Cooperation with the Department of Labor. (a) (a) The contracting agency shall cooperate with representatives of the Department of Labor in the inspection of records, interviews with workers, and all other aspects of investigations undertaken by the Department of Labor. When requested, the contracting agency shall furnish to the Secretary of Labor any available information on contractors, subcontractors, current and previous contracts, and the nature of the contract work. (b) (b) If a Department of Labor representative undertakes an investigation at a construction project, the contracting officer shall inquire into the scope of the investigation, and request to be notified immediately of any violations discovered under the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute, the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards statute, or the Copeland (Anti-Kickback) Act.
19.811-2 Competitive. (a) (a) The contract will be prepared in accordance with 14.408-1(d), except that appropriate blocks on the Standard Form 26 or 1442 will be asterisked and a continuation sheet appended as a tripartite agreement which includes the following: (b) (b) The process for obtaining signatures shall be as specified in 19.811-1(b)(4).
Subpart 24.2 - Freedom of Information Act No subsections found.
15.404 Proposal analysis. No subsections found.
52.207-4 Economic Purchase Quantity-Supplies. (a) (a) Offerors are invited to state an opinion on whether the quantity(ies) of supplies on which bids, proposals or quotes are requested in this solicitation is (are) economically advantageous to the Government. (b) (b) Each offeror who believes that acquisitions in different quantities would be more advantageous is invited to recommend an economic purchase quantity. If different quantities are recommended, a total and a unit price must be quoted for applicable items. An economic purchase quantity is that quantity at which a significant price break occurs. If there are significant price breaks at different quantity points, this information is desired as well. (c) (c) The information requested in this provision is being solicited to avoid acquisitions in disadvantageous quantities and to assist the Government in developing a data base for future acquisitions of these items. However, the Government reserves the right to amend or cancel the solicitation and resolicit with respect to any individual item in the event quotations received and the Government’s requirements indicate that different quantities should be acquired.
48.105 Relationship to other incentives. No subsections found.
22.406 Administration and enforcement. No subsections found.
22.103-3 Procedures. (a) (a) Solicitations normally shall not specify delivery or performance schedules that may require overtime at Government expense. (b) (b) In negotiating contracts, contracting officers should, consistent with the Government’s needs, attempt to- (c) (c) When it becomes apparent during negotiations of applicable contracts (see 22.103-5(b)) that overtime will be required in contract performance, the contracting officer shall secure from the contractor a request for all overtime to be used during the life of the contract, to the extent that the overtime can be estimated with reasonable certainty. The contractor’s request shall contain the information required by paragraph (b) of the clause at 52.222-2, Payment for Overtime Premiums.
32.006-2 Definition. No subsections found.
30.606 Resolving cost impacts. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Negotiations. The CFAO shall- (c) (c) Contract adjustments. (d) (d) Alternate methods.
30.603-2 Unilateral and desirable changes. (a) (a) Unilateral changes. (b) (b) Desirable changes. (c) (c) Notice and proposal preparation. (d) (d) Retroactive changes. (e) (e) Contractor accounting changes due to external restructuring activities. The requirements for contract price and cost adjustments do not apply to compliant cost accounting practice changes that are directly associated with external restructuring activities that are subject to and meet the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 3761. However, the disclosure requirements in 52.230-6(b) shall be followed.
6.302-6 National security. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Application. This authority may be used for any acquisition when disclosure of the Government’s needs would compromise the national security (e.g., would violate security requirements); it shall not be used merely because the acquisition is classified, or merely because access to classified matter will be necessary to submit a proposal or to perform the contract. (c) (c) Limitations.
52.216-6 Price Redetermination-Retroactive. (a) (a) General. The unit price and the total price stated in this contract shall be redetermined in accordance with this clause, but in no event shall the total amount paid under this contract exceed __________ [insert dollar amount of ceiling price]. (b) (b) Definition. "Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance with part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract. (c) (c) Data submission. (d) (d) Price determination. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the data required by paragraph (c) of this section, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor shall promptly negotiate to redetermine fair and reasonable prices for supplies delivered and services performed by the Contractor under this contract. (e) (e) Contract modification. The negotiated redetermination of price shall be evidenced by a modification to this contract, signed by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer. (f) (f) Adjusting billing prices. Pending execution of the contract modification (see paragraph (e) of this section), the Contractor shall submit invoices or vouchers in accordance with billing prices stated in this contract. If at any time it appears that the then-current billing prices will be substantially greater than the estimated final prices, or if the Contractor submits data showing that the redetermined prices will be substantially greater than the current billing prices, the parties shall negotiate an appropriate decrease or increase in billing prices. Any billing price adjustment shall be reflected in a contract modification and shall not affect the redetermination of prices under this clause. After the contract modification for price redetermination is executed, the total amount paid or to be paid on all invoices or vouchers shall be adjusted to reflect the agreed-upon prices, and any resulting additional payments, refunds, or credits shall be made promptly. (g) (g) Quarterly limitation on payments statement. This paragraph (g) shall apply until final price redetermination under this contract has been completed. (h) (h) Subcontracts. No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis. (i) (i) Disagreements. If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon redetermined prices within 60 days (or within such other period as the parties agree) after the date on which the data required by paragraph (c) of this section are to be submitted, the Contracting Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance with the Disputes clause. For the purpose of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section, and pending final settlement of the disagreement on appeal, by failure to appeal, or by agreement, this decision shall be treated as an executed contract modification. (j) (j) Termination. If this contract is terminated before price redetermination, prices shall be established in accordance with this clause for completed supplies and services not terminated. All other elements of the termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable clauses of this contract.
22.1704 Violations and remedies. (a) (a) Violations. It is a violation	of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, as amended, (22 U.S.C. chapter 78), E.O.	13627, or the policies of this subpart if— (b) (b) Credible	information. Upon receipt of credible information regarding a violation	listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the contracting officer—- (c) (c) Receipt	of agency Inspector General report. (d) (d) Remedies.	After a final determination in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii)	of this section that the allegations of a trafficking in persons	violation are substantiated, the contracting officer shall—
49.603-6 No-cost settlement agreement-complete termination. No subsections found.
42.702 Purpose. (a) (a) Establishing final indirect cost rates under this subpart provides- (b) (b) Establishing billing rates provides a method for interim reimbursement of indirect costs at estimated rates subject to adjustment during contract performance and at the time the final indirect cost rates are established.
17.205 Documentation. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall justify in writing the quantities or the term under option, the notification period for exercising the option, and any limitation on option price under 17.203(g); and shall include the justification document in the contract file. (b) (b) Any justifications and approvals and any determination and findings required by part  6 shall specify both the basic requirement and the increase permitted by the option.
53.212 Acquisition of commercial products and commercial services. No subsections found.
32.007 Contract financing payments. (a) (a) (b) (b) For advance payments, loans, or other arrangements that do not involve recurrent submission of contract financing requests, the designated payment office will make payment in accordance with the applicable contract financing terms or as directed by the contracting officer. (c) (c) A proper contract financing request must comply with the terms and conditions specified by the contract. The contractor must correct any defects in requests submitted in the manner specified in the contract or as directed by the contracting officer. (d) (d) The designated billing office and designated payment office must annotate each contract financing request with the date their respective offices received the request. (e) (e) The Government will not pay an interest penalty to the contractor as a result of delayed contract financing payments.
25.1001 Waiver of right to examination of records. (a) (a) Policy. The clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records-Negotiation, prescribed at 15.209(b), and paragraph (d) of the clause at 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, prescribed at 12.301(b)(4), implement 10 U.S.C. 3841 and 41 U.S.C. 4706. The basic clauses authorize examination of records by the Comptroller General. (b) (b) Determination and findings. The determination and findings must-
28.201 Requirements for security. (a) (a) Agencies shall obtain adequate security for bonds (including coinsurance and reinsurance agreements) required or used with a contract for supplies or services (including construction). Acceptable forms of security include- (b) (b) Solicitations shall not preclude offerors from using the types of surety or other security permitted by this subpart, unless prohibited by law or regulation.
25.903 Exempted supplies. (a) (a) Subchapters VIII and X of Chapter 98 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202) list supplies for which exemptions from duty may be obtained when imported into the customs territory of the United States under a Government contract. For certain of these supplies, the contracting agency must certify to the Commissioner of Customs that they are for the purpose stated in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (see 19 CFR 10.102-104, 10.114, and 10.121 and 15 CFR Part 301 for requirements and formats). (b) (b) Supplies (excluding equipment) for Government-operated vessels or aircraft may be withdrawn from any customs-bonded warehouse, from continuous customs custody elsewhere than in a bonded warehouse, or from a foreign-trade zone, free of duty and internal revenue tax as provided in 19 U.S.C. 1309 and 1317. The contracting activity must cite this authority on the appropriate customs form when making purchases (see 19 CFR 10.59 - 10.65).
3.909-1 Prohibition. (a) (a) The Government is prohibited from using fiscal year 2015 and subsequent fiscal year funds for a contract with an entity that requires employees or subcontractors of such entity seeking to report waste, fraud, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information. See section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions.) (b) (b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not contravene requirements applicable to Standard Form 312 (Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement), Form 4414 (Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement), or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified information.
49.206-1 Submission of settlement proposals. (a) (a) Subject to the provisions of the termination clause, the contractor should promptly submit to the TCO a settlement proposal for the amount claimed because of the termination. The final settlement proposal must be submitted within oneyear from the effective date of the termination, unless the period is extended by the TCO. Termination charges under a single prime contract involving two or more divisions or units of the prime contractor may be consolidated and included in a single settlement proposal. (b) (b) The settlement proposal must cover all cost elements including settlements with subcontractors and any proposed profit. With the consent of the TCO, proposals may be filed in successive steps covering separate portions of the contractor’s costs. Such interim proposals shall include all costs of a particular type, except as the TCO may authorize otherwise. (c) (c) Settlement proposals must be on the forms prescribed in 49.602 unless the forms are inadequate for a particular contract. Settlement proposals must be in reasonable detail supported by adequate accounting data. Actual, standard (appropriately adjusted), or average costs may be used in preparing settlement proposals if they are determined under generally recognized accounting principles consistently followed by the contractor. When actual, standard, or average costs are not reasonably available, estimated costs may be used if the method of arriving at the estimates is approved by the TCO. Contractors shall not be required to maintain unduly elaborate cost accounting systems merely because their contracts may subsequently be terminated. (d) (d) The contractor may use the Settlement Proposal (Short Form), SF 1438 (see 49.602-1(d) and 53.249), when the total proposal is less than $10,000, unless otherwise instructed by the TCO. Settlement proposals that would normally be included in a single settlement proposal; e.g., those based on a series of separate orders for the same item under one contract, should be consolidated whenever possible and not divided to bring them below $10,000. (e) (e) The Schedule of Accounting Information, SF 1439, must be submitted for each termination under a contract for which a settlement proposal is submitted, except when the Standard Form 1438 is used. Although several interim proposals may be submitted, SF 1439 need be submitted only once unless, subsequent to filing the original form, major changes occur in the information submitted.
52.227-9 Refund of Royalties. (a) (a) The contract price includes certain amounts for royalties payable by the Contractor or subcontractors or both, which amounts have been reported to the Contracting Officer. (b) (b) The term "royalties" as used in this clause refers to any costs or charges in the nature of royalties, license fees, patent or license amortization costs, or the like, for the use of or for rights in patents and patent applications in connection with performing this contract or any subcontract hereunder. (c) (c) The Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer, before final payment under this contract, a statement of royalties paid or required to be paid in connection with performing this contract and subcontracts hereunder together with the reasons. (d) (d) The Contractor will be compensated for royalties reported under paragraph (c) of this clause, only to the extent that such royalties were included in the contract price and are determined by the Contracting Officer to be properly chargeable to the Government and allocable to the contract. To the extent that any royalties that are included in the contract price are not in fact paid by the Contractor or are determined by the Contracting Officer not to be properly chargeable to the Government and allocable to the contract, the contract price shall be reduced. Repayment or credit to the Government shall be made as the Contracting Officer directs. (e) (e) If, at any time within 3 years after final payment under this contract, the Contractor for any reason is relieved in whole or in part from the payment of the royalties included in the final contract price as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of that fact and shall reimburse the Government in a corresponding amount. (f) (f) The substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), shall be included in any subcontract in which the amount of royalties reported during negotiation of the subcontract exceeds $250.
36.602-4 Selection authority. (a) (a) The final selection decision shall be made by the agency head or a designated selection authority. (b) (b) The selection authority shall review the recommendations of the evaluation board and shall, with the advice of appropriate technical and staff representatives, make the final selection. This final selection shall be a listing, in order of preference, of the firms considered most highly qualified to perform the work. If the firm listed as the most preferred is not the firm recommended as the most highly qualified by the evaluation board, the selection authority shall provide for the contract file a written explanation of the reason for the preference. All firms on the final selection list are considered "selected firms" with which the contracting officer may negotiate in accordance with 36.606. (c) (c) The selection authority shall not add firms to the selection report. If the firms recommended in the report are not deemed to be qualified or the report is considered inadequate for any reason, the selection authority shall record the reasons and return the report through channels to the evaluation board for appropriate revision. (d) (d) The board shall be promptly informed of the final selection.
8.1101 Definitions. No subsections found.
36.500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
28.103-4 Contract clause. No subsections found.
31.205-26 Material costs. (a) (a) Material costs include the costs of such items as raw materials, parts, subassemblies, components, and manufacturing supplies, whether purchased or manufactured by the contractor, and may include such collateral items as inbound transportation and in-transit insurance. In computing material costs, the contractor shall consider reasonable overruns, spoilage, or defective work (unless otherwise provided in any contract provision relating to inspecting and correcting defective work). (b) (b) The contractor shall- (c) (c) Reasonable adjustments arising from differences between periodic physical inventories and book inventories may be included in arriving at costs; provided such adjustments relate to the period of contract performance. (d) (d) When materials are purchased specifically for and are identifiable solely with performance under a contract, the actual purchase cost of those materials should be charged to the contract. If material is issued from stores, any generally recognized method of pricing such material is acceptable if that method is consistently applied and the results are equitable. (e) (e) Allowance for all materials, supplies and services that are sold or transferred between any divisions, subdivisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the contractor under a common control shall be on the basis of cost incurred in accordance with this subpart. However, allowance may be at price when- (f) (f) When a commercial product or commercial service under paragraph (e) of this section is sold or transferred at a price based on a catalog or market price, the contractor—
52.219-21 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 3.10 - Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct No subsections found.
52.247-54 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.228-2 Additional Bond Security. (a) (a) Any surety upon any bond, or issuing financial institution for other security, furnished with this contract becomes unacceptable to the Government; (b) (b) Any surety fails to furnish reports on its financial condition as required by the Government; (c) (c) The contract price is increased so that the penal sum of any bond becomes inadequate in the opinion of the Contracting Officer; or (d) (d) An irrevocable letter of credit (ILC) used as security will expire before the end of the period of required security. If the Contractor does not furnish an acceptable extension or replacement ILC, or other acceptable substitute, at least 30 days before an ILC’s scheduled expiration, the Contracting officer has the right to immediately draw on the ILC.
Subpart 3.4 - Contingent Fees No subsections found.
8.405-6 Limiting sources. (a) (a) Orders or BPAs exceeding the micro-purchase threshold based on a limited sources justification. (b) (b) Items peculiar to one manufacturer. An item peculiar to one manufacturer can be a particular brand name, product, or a feature of a product, peculiar to one manufacturer. A brand name item, whether available on one or more schedule contracts, is an item peculiar to one manufacturer. (c) (c) An order or BPA with an estimated value exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold. (d) (d) Justification approvals.
49.204 Deductions. (a) (a) The agreed price for any part of the termination inventory purchased or retained by the contractor, and the proceeds from any materials sold that have not been paid or credited to the Government; (b) (b) The fair value, as determined by the TCO, of any part of the termination inventory that, before transfer of title to the Government or to a buyer under part  45, is lost or so damaged as to become undeliverable (normal spoilage is excepted, as is inventory for which the Government has expressly assumed the risk of loss); and (c) (c) Any other amounts as appropriate in the particular case.
52.225-24 Notice of Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials Under Trade Agreements. (a) (a) Definitions. "Construction material," "domestic construction material," "foreign construction material," "manufactured construction material," "Recovery Act designated country construction material," "steel," and "unmanufactured construction material," as used in this provision, are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Required Use of Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American statute-Construction Materials Under Trade Agreements" (Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.225-23). (b) (b) Requests for determination of inapplicability. An Offeror requesting a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act) or the Buy American statute should submit the request to the Contracting Officer in time to allow a determination before submission of offers. The Offeror shall include the information and applicable supporting data required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of FAR clause 52.225-23 in the request. If an Offeror has not requested a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute before submitting its offer, or has not received a response to a previous request, the Offeror shall include the information and supporting data in the offer. (c) (c) Evaluation of offers. (d) (d) Alternate offers.
41.202 Procedures. (a) (a) Prior to executing a utility service contract, the contracting officer shall comply with parts  6 and 7 and subsections 41.201(d) and (e) of this part. In accordance with parts  6 and 7, agencies shall conduct market surveys and perform acquisition planning in order to promote and provide for full and open competition provided that the contracting officer determines that any resultant contract would not be inconsistent with applicable state law governing the provision of electric utility services. If competition for an entire utility service is not available, the market survey may be used to determine the availability of competitive sources for certain portions of the requirement. The scope of the term "entire utility service" includes the provision of the utility service capacity, energy, water, sewage, transportation, standby or back-up service, transmission and/or distribution service, quality assurance, system reliability, system operation and maintenance, metering, and billing. (b) (b) In performing a market survey (see 7.101), the contracting officer shall consider, in addition to alternative competitive sources, use of the following: (c) (c) When a utility supplier refuses to execute a tendered contract as outlined in 41.201(b), the agency shall obtain a written definite and final refusal signed by a corporate officer or other responsible official of the supplier (or if unobtainable, document any unwritten refusal) and transmit this document, along with statements of the reasons for the refusal and the record of negotiations, to GSA at the address specified at 41.301(a). Unless urgent and compelling circumstances exist, the contracting officer shall notify GSA prior to acquiring utility services without executing a tendered contract. After such notification, the agency may proceed with the acquisition and pay for the utility service under the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1501(a)(8)- (d) (d) When obtaining service without a bilateral written contract, the contracting officer shall establish a utility history file on each acquisition of utility service provided by a contractor. This utility history file shall contain, in addition to applicable documents in 4.803, the following information: (e) (e) If the Government obtains utility service pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall, on an annual basis beginning from the date of final refusal, take action to execute a bilateral written contract. The contracting officer shall document the utility history file with the efforts made and the agency shall notify GSA, in writing, if the utility continues to refuse to execute a bilateral contract.
52.227-14 Rights in Data-General. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Allocation of rights. (c) (c) Copyright- (d) (d) Release, publication, and use of data. The Contractor shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Contractor in the performance of this contract, except- (e) (e) Unauthorized marking of data. (f) (f) Omitted or incorrect markings. (g) (g) Protection of limited rights data and restricted computer software. (h) (h) Subcontracting. The Contractor shall obtain from its subcontractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Contractor’s obligations to the Government under this contract. If a subcontractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government those rights, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the refusal and shall not proceed with the subcontract award without authorization in writing from the Contracting Officer. (i) (i) Relationship to patents or other rights. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government.
52.244-6 Subcontracts for Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) To the maximum extent practicable, the Contractor shall incorporate, and require its subcontractors at all tiers to incorporate, commercial products, commercial services, or non-developmental items as components of items to be supplied under this contract. (c) (c) (d) (d) The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts awarded under this contract.
Subpart 45.4 - Title to Government Property No subsections found.
31.201-7 Construction and architect-engineer contracts. No subsections found.
53.236 Construction and architect-engineer contracts. No subsections found.
27.200 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Patent and copyright infringement liability; (b) (b) Royalties; (c) (c) Security requirements for patent applications containing classified subject matter; and (d) (d) Patented technology under trade agreements.
Subpart 38.2 - Establishing and Administering Federal Supply Schedules No subsections found.
13.305-1 General. No subsections found.
35.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part prescribes policies and procedures of special application to research and development (R&D) contracting. (b) (b) R&D integral to acquisition of major systems is covered in part  34. Independent research and development (IR&D) is covered at 31.205-18.
50.104-2 General. (a) (a) When approving or denying a proposal for the exercise of residual powers, the approving authority shall sign and date a Memorandum of Decision containing substantially the same information called for by 50.103-6. (b) (b) Every contract entered into, amended, or modified under residual powers shall comply with the requirements of 50.103-7.
1.602 Contracting officers. No subsections found.
9.104-2 Special standards. (a) (a) When it is necessary for a particular acquisition or class of acquisitions, the contracting officer shall develop, with the assistance of appropriate specialists, special standards of responsibility. Special standards may be particularly desirable when experience has demonstrated that unusual expertise or specialized facilities are needed for adequate contract performance. The special standards shall be set forth in the solicitation (and so identified) and shall apply to all offerors. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall award contracts for subsistence only to those prospective contractors that meet the general standards in 9.104-1 and are approved in accordance with agency sanitation standards and procedures.
52.222-39 [Reserved] No subsections found.
9.604 Limitations. (a) (a) Require consent to subcontracts (see subpart  44.2); (b) (b) Determine, on the basis of the stated contractor team arrangement, the responsibility of the prime contractor (see subpart  9.1); (c) (c) Provide to the prime contractor data rights owned or controlled by the Government; (d) (d) Pursue its policies on competitive contracting, subcontracting, and component breakout after initial production or at any other time; and (e) (e) Hold the prime contractor fully responsible for contract performance, regardless of any team arrangement between the prime contractor and its subcontractors.
52.246-19 Warranty of Systems and Equipment under Performance Specifications or Design Criteria. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Contractor’s obligations. (c) (c) Remedies available to the Government.
1.102-3 Evaluating agency acquisition processes. (a) (a)Agencies are encouraged to develop internal procedures seeking voluntary feedback from interested parties in an acquisition to assess process strengths and weaknesses and improve effectiveness and efficiency of the acquisition process. Agencies may— (b) (b)Contracting officers are encouraged to insert the provision 52.201-1, Acquisition 360: Voluntary Survey, in accordance with agency procedures. (c) (c)Contracting officers shall not review information until after contract award and shall not consider it in the award decision.
16.206-2 Application. (a) (a) A ceiling price shall be negotiated for the contract at a level that reflects a reasonable sharing of risk by the contractor. The established ceiling price may be adjusted only if required by the operation of contract clauses providing for equitable adjustment or other revision of the contract price under stated circumstances. (b) (b) The contract should be awarded only after negotiation of a billing price that is as fair and reasonable as the circumstances permit. (c) (c) Since this contract type provides the contractor no cost control incentive except the ceiling price, the contracting officer should make clear to the contractor during discussion before award that the contractor’s management effectiveness and ingenuity will be considered in retroactively redetermining the price.
18.204 Humanitarian or peacekeeping operation. (a) (a) A humanitarian or peacekeeping operation is defined in 2.101. (b) (b) Simplified acquisition threshold. The threshold increases when the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to support a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation. (See 2.101.)
36.519 Organization and direction of the work. No subsections found.
52.247-69 Reporting Requirement for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers Regarding Training to Prevent Human Trafficking. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Annual reporting requirement. (c) (c) Training. In accordance with 49 U.S.C. 44734 and 44738, personnel trained in the detection and reporting of potential human trafficking should include the following:
8.715 Replacement commodities. No subsections found.
25.401 Exceptions. (a) (a) This subpart does not apply to- (b) (b) In the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) and each FTA, there is a U.S. schedule that lists services that are excluded from that agreement in acquisitions by the United States. Acquisitions of the following services are excluded from coverage by the U.S. schedule of the WTO GPA or an FTA as indicated in this table:
37.601 General. (a) (a) Solicitations may use either a performance work statement or a statement of objectives (see 37.602). (b) (b) Performance-based contracts for services shall include-
52.225-19 Contractor Personnel in a Designated Operational Area or Supporting a Diplomatic or Consular Mission Outside the United States. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) General. (c) (c) Support. Unless specified elsewhere in the contract, the Contractor is responsible for all logistical and security support required for Contractor personnel engaged in this contract. (d) (d) Compliance with laws and regulations. The Contractor shall comply with, and shall ensure that its personnel in the designated operational area or supporting the diplomatic or consular mission are familiar with and comply with, all applicable- (e) (e) Preliminary personnel requirements. (f) (f) Processing and departure points. The Contractor shall require its personnel who are arriving from outside the area of performance to perform in the designated operational area or supporting the diplomatic or consular mission to- (g) (g) Personnel data. (h) (h) Contractor personnel. The Contracting Officer may direct the Contractor, at its own expense, to remove and replace any Contractor personnel who fail to comply with or violate applicable requirements of this contract. Such action may be taken at the Government’s discretion without prejudice to its rights under any other provision of this contract, including termination for default or cause. (i) (i) Weapons. (j) (j) Vehicle or equipment licenses. Contractor personnel shall possess the required licenses to operate all vehicles or equipment necessary to perform the contract in the area of performance. (k) (k) Military clothing and protective equipment. (l) (l) Evacuation. (m) (m) Personnel recovery. (n) (n) Notification and return of personal effects. (o) (o) Mortuary affairs. Mortuary affairs for Contractor personnel who die in the area of performance will be handled as follows: (p) (p) Changes. In addition to the changes otherwise authorized by the Changes clause of this contract, the Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order identified as a change order, make changes in place of performance or Government-furnished facilities, equipment, material, services, or site. Any change order issued in accordance with this paragraph shall be subject to the provisions of the Changes clause of this contract. (q) (q) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (q), in all subcontracts that require subcontractor personnel to perform outside the United States-
12.403 Termination. (a) (a) General. The clause at 52.212-4 permits the Government to terminate a contract for commercial products or commercial services either for the convenience of the Government or for cause. However, the paragraphs in 52.212-4 entitled "Termination for the Government’s Convenience" and "Termination for Cause" contain concepts which differ from those contained in the termination clauses prescribed in part  49. Consequently, the requirements of part  49 do not apply when terminating contracts for commercial products or commercial services and contracting officers shall follow the procedures in this section. Contracting officers may continue to use part  49 as guidance to the extent that part  49 does not conflict with this section and the language of the termination paragraphs in 52.212-4. (b) (b) Policy. The contracting officer should exercise the Government’s right to terminate a contract for commercial products or commercial services either for convenience or for cause only when such a termination would be in the best interests of the Government. The contracting officer should consult with counsel prior to terminating for cause. (c) (c) Termination for cause. (d) (d) Termination for the Government’s convenience.
3.501-2 General. (a) (a) Buying-in may decrease competition	or result in poor contract performance. The contracting officer	must take appropriate action to ensure buying-in losses are not	recovered by the contractor through the pricing of- (b) (b) The Government	should minimize the opportunity for buying-in by seeking a price	commitment covering as much of the entire program concerned as is	practical by using- (c) (c) Other safeguards	are available to the contracting officer to preclude recovery of	buying-in losses (e.g., amortization of nonrecurring costs	(see 15.408, Table  15-1, paragraph	A, column (2) under "Formats for Submission of Line Item Summaries")	and treatment of unreasonable price quotations (see 15.405).
47.104 Government rate tenders under sections 10721 and 13712 of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712). (a) (a) This section explains statutory authority for common carriers subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (motor carrier, water carrier, freight forwarder, rail carrier) to offer to transport persons or property for the account of the United States without charge or at "a rate reduced from the applicable commercial rate." Reduced rates are offered in a Government rate tender. Additional information for civilian agencies is available in the Federal Management Regulation (41 CFR parts 102-117 and 102-118) and for DoD in the Defense Transportation Regulation (DoD 4500.9-R). (b) (b) Reduced rates offered in a Government rate tender are authorized for transportation provided by a rail carrier, for the movement of household goods, and for movement by or with a water carrier in noncontiguous domestic trade.
16.104 Factors in selecting contract types. (a) (a) Price competition. Normally, effective price competition results in realistic pricing, and a fixed-price contract is ordinarily in the Government’s interest. (b) (b) Price analysis. Price analysis, with or without competition, may provide a basis for selecting the contract type. The degree to which price analysis can provide a realistic pricing standard should be carefully considered. (See 15.404-1(b).) (c) (c) Cost analysis. In the absence of effective price competition and if price analysis is not sufficient, the cost estimates of the offeror and the Government provide the bases for negotiating contract pricing arrangements. It is essential that the uncertainties involved in performance and their possible impact upon costs be identified and evaluated, so that a contract type that places a reasonable degree of cost responsibility upon the contractor can be negotiated. (d) (d) Type and complexity of the requirement. Complex requirements, particularly those unique to the Government, usually result in greater risk assumption by the Government. This is especially true for complex research and development contracts, when performance uncertainties or the likelihood of changes makes it difficult to estimate performance costs in advance. As a requirement recurs or as quantity production begins, the cost risk should shift to the contractor, and a fixed-price contract should be considered. (e) (e) Combining contract types. If the entire contract cannot be firm-fixed-price, the contracting officer shall consider whether or not a portion of the contract can be established on a firm-fixed-price basis. (f) (f) Urgency of the requirement. If urgency is a primary factor, the Government may choose to assume a greater proportion of risk or it may offer incentives tailored to performance outcomes to ensure timely contract performance. (g) (g) Period of performance or length of production run. In times of economic uncertainty, contracts extending over a relatively long period may require economic price adjustment or price redetermination clauses. (h) (h) Contractor’s technical capability and financial responsibility. (i) (i) Adequacy of the contractor's accounting system. Before agreeing on a contract type other than firm-fixed-price, the contracting officer shall ensure that the contractor’s accounting system will permit timely development of all necessary cost data in the form required by the proposed contract type. This factor may be critical– (j) (j) Concurrent contracts. If performance under the proposed contract involves concurrent operations under other contracts, the impact of those contracts, including their pricing arrangements, should be considered. (k) (k) Extent and nature of proposed subcontracting. If the contractor proposes extensive subcontracting, a contract type reflecting the actual risks to the prime contractor should be selected. (l) (l) Acquisition history. Contractor risk usually decreases as the requirement is repetitively acquired. Also, product descriptions or descriptions of services to be performed can be defined more clearly.
32.1006 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.246-24 Limitation of Liability-High-Value Items. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this clause, and notwithstanding any other provision of this contract, the Contractor shall not be liable for loss of or damage to property of the Government (including the supplies delivered under this contract) that- (b) (b) The limitation of liability under paragraph (a) of this clause shall not apply when a defect or deficiency in, or the Government’s acceptance of, the supplies results from willful misconduct or lack of good faith on the part of any of the Contractor’s managerial personnel. The term "Contractor’s managerial personnel," as used in this clause, means the Contractor’s directors, officers, and any of the Contractor’s managers, superintendents, or equivalent representatives who have supervision or direction of- (c) (c) If the Contractor carries insurance, or has established a reserve for self-insurance, covering liability for loss or damage suffered by the Government through purchase or use of the supplies required to be delivered under this contract, the Contractor shall be liable to the Government, to the extent of such insurance or reserve, for loss of or damage to property of the Government occurring after Government acceptance of, and resulting from any defects or deficiencies in, the supplies delivered under this contract. (d) (d) (e) (e) This clause shall not limit or otherwise affect the Government’s rights under clauses, if included in this contract, that cover-
3.104-5 Disqualification. (a) (a) Contacts through agents or other intermediaries. Employment contacts between the employee and the offeror, that are conducted through agents, or other intermediaries, may require disqualification under 3.104-3(c)(1). These contacts may also require disqualification under other statutes and regulations. (See 3.104-2(b)(2).) (b) (b) Disqualification notice. In addition to submitting the contact report required by 3.104-3(c)(1), an agency official who must disqualify himself or herself pursuant to 3.104-3(c)(1)(ii) must promptly submit written notice of disqualification from further participation in the procurement to the contracting officer, the source selection authority if other than the contracting officer, and the agency official’s immediate supervisor. As a minimum, the notice must- (c) (c) Resumption of participation in a procurement.
Subpart 8.8 - Acquisition of Printing and Related Supplies No subsections found.
13.305 Imprest funds and third party drafts. No subsections found.
52.214-21 Descriptive Literature. (a) (a) "Descriptive literature," as used in this provision, means information furnished by a bidder, such as cuts, illustrations, drawings, and brochures, that shows a product’s characteristics or construction or explains its operation. The term includes only that information required to evaluate the acceptability of the product and excludes other information for operating or maintaining the product. (b) (b) Descriptive literature is required to establish, for the purpose of evaluation and award, details of the product offered that are specified elsewhere in the solicitation and pertain to significant elements such as- (c) (c) Descriptive literature, required elsewhere in this solicitation, shall be- (d) (d) If the bidder fails to submit descriptive literature on time, the Government will reject the bid, except that late descriptive literature sent by mail may be considered under the Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids provision of this solicitation. (e) (e) If the descriptive literature fails to show that the product offered conforms to the requirements of the solicitation, the Government will reject the bid.
32.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.216-11 Cost Contract-No Fee. (a) (a) The Government shall not pay the Contractor a fee for performing this contract. (b) (b) After payment of 80 percent of the total estimated cost shown in the Schedule, the Contracting Officer may withhold further payment of allowable cost until a reserve is set aside in an amount that the Contracting Officer considers necessary to protect the Government’s interest. This reserve shall not exceed onepercent of the total estimated cost shown in the Schedule or $100,000, whichever is less.
47.303-14 C.i.f. destination. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."C.i.f. (Cost, insurance, freight) destination" means free of expense to the Government delivered on board the ocean vessel to the specified point of destination, with the cost of transportation and marine insurance paid by the contractor. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor’s responsibilities are the same as those listed in 47.303-13(b), except that, in addition, the contractor shall obtain and dispatch to the Government an insurance policy or certificate providing the amount and extent of marine insurance coverage specified in the contract or agreed upon by the Government contracting officer. (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-42, C.i.f. (Cost, insurance, freight) Destination, when the delivery term is c.i.f. destination.
3.906 Contract clause. No subsections found.
47.207-8 Government responsibilities. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall state clearly the Government’s responsibilities that have a direct bearing on the contractor’s performance under the contract; e.g., the Government’s responsibility to notify the contractor in advance when hazardous materials are included in a shipment. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-27, Contract Not Affected by Oral Agreement.
22.1303 Applicability. (a) (a) The Act applies to all contracts and subcontracts for personal property and nonpersonal services (including construction) of $150,000 or more except as waived by the Secretary of Labor. (b) (b) The requirements of the clause at 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans, in any contract with a State or local government (or any agency, instrumentality, or subdivision) do not apply to any agency, instrumentality, or subdivision of that government that does not participate in work on or under the contract. (c) (c) The Act requires submission of the VETS-4212 Report in all cases where the contractor or subcontractor has received an award of $150,000 or more, except for awards to State and local governments, and foreign organizations where the workers are recruited outside of the United States.
6.202 Establishing or maintaining alternative sources. (a) (a) Agencies may exclude a particular source from a contract action in order to establish or maintain an alternative source or sources for the supplies or services being acquired if the agency head determines that to do so would- (b) (b)
17.602 Policy. (a) (a) Heads of agencies, with requisite statutory authority, may determine in writing to authorize contracting officers to enter into or renew any management and operating contract in accordance with the agency’s statutory authority, or 41 U.S.C. chapter 33, and the agency’s regulations governing such contracts. This authority shall not be delegated. Every contract so authorized shall show its authorization upon its face. (b) (b) Agencies may authorize management and operating contracts only in a manner consistent with the guidance of this subpart and only if they are consistent with the situations described in 17.604. (c) (c) Within 2 years of the effective date of this regulation, agencies shall review their current contractual arrangements in the light of the guidance of this subpart, in order to-
22.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
30.201 Contract requirements. No subsections found.
52.212-1 Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code(s) and small business size standard(s) for this acquisition appear elsewhere in the solicitation. However, the small business size standard for a concern that submits an offer, other than on a construction or service acquisition, but proposes to furnish an end item that it did not itself manufacture, process, or produce is 500 employees, or 150 employees for information technology value-added resellers under NAICS code 541519, if the acquisition— (b) (b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a minimum, offers must show— (c) (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions, including alternative line items (provided that the alternative line items are consistent with FAR subpart  4.10), or alternative commercial products or commercial services for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (g) (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (j) (j) Unique entity identifier.(Applies to all offers that exceed the micro-purchase threshold, and offers at or below the micro-purchase threshold if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM).) The Offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "Unique Entity Identifier" followed by the unique entity identifier that identifies the Offeror's name and address. The Offeror also shall enter its Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) indicator, if applicable. The EFT indicator is a four-character suffix to the unique entity identifier. The suffix is assigned at the discretion of the Offeror to establish additional SAM records for identifying alternative EFT accounts (see FAR subpart  32.11) for the same entity. If the Offeror does not have a unique entity identifier, it should contact the entity designated at www.sam.gov for unique entity identifier establishment directly to obtain one. The Offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the entity designated at www.sam.gov for establishing the unique entity identifier. (k) (k) [Reserved] (l) (l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable:
Subpart 31.7 - Contracts with Nonprofit Organizations No subsections found.
52.249-14 Excusable Delays. (a) (a) Except for defaults of subcontractors at any tier, the Contractor shall not be in default because of any failure to perform this contract under its terms if the failure arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples of these causes are (1) acts of God or of the public enemy, (2) acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, (3) fires, (4) floods, (5) epidemics, (6) quarantine restrictions, (7) strikes, (8) freight embargoes, and (9) unusually severe weather. In each instance, the failure to perform must be beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. "Default" includes failure to make progress in the work so as to endanger performance. (b) (b) If the failure to perform is caused by the failure of a subcontractor at any tier to perform or make progress, and if the cause of the failure was beyond the control of both the Contractor and subcontractor, and without the fault or negligence of either, the Contractor shall not be deemed to be in default,- unless- (c) (c) Upon request of the Contractor, the Contracting Officer shall ascertain the facts and extent of the failure. If the Contracting Officer determines that any failure to perform results from one or more of the causes above, the delivery schedule shall be revised, subject to the rights of the Government under the termination clause of this contract.
9.406-3 Procedures. (a) (a) Investigation and referral. Agencies shall establish procedures for the prompt reporting, investigation, and referral to the suspending and debarring official of matters appropriate for that official’s consideration. (b) (b) Decision-making process. (c) (c) Notice of proposal to debar. A notice of proposed debarment shall be issued by the suspending and debarring official to the contractor and any specifically named affiliates. (d) (d) Suspending and debarring official’s decision. (e) (e) Notice of suspending and debarring official's decision. (f) (f) Administrative agreements. (g) (g) Voluntary exclusions. (h) (h) Pre-notice letters. Prior to initiating a proposed debarment, a pre-notice letter may be issued at the discretion of the agency suspending and debarring official. A pre-notice letter is not required to initiate debarment under this subpart. (See 9.403.)
4.1003 Establishing line items. (a) (a) Separately identifiable. (b) (b) Single unit price or total price. (c) (c) Single accounting classification citation. A single deliverable may be funded by multiple accounting classifications when the deliverable effort cannot be otherwise subdivided. (d) (d) Separate delivery schedule, destination, period of performance, or place of performance. (e) (e) Single contract pricing type (e.g., fixed-price or cost-reimbursement).
4.403 Responsibilities of contracting officers. (a) (a) Presolicitation phase. Contracting officers shall review all proposed solicitations to determine whether access to classified information may be required by offerors, or by a contractor during contract performance. (b) (b) Solicitation phase. Contracting officers shall- (c) (c) Award phase. Contracting officers shall inform contractors and subcontractors of the security classifications and requirements assigned to the various documents, materials, tasks, subcontracts, and components of the classified contract as identified in the requirement documentation as follows:
52.203-3 Gratuities. (a) (a) The right of the Contractor to proceed may be terminated by written notice if, after notice and hearing, the agency head or a designee determines that the Contractor, its agent, or another representative- (b) (b) The facts supporting this determination may be reviewed by any court having lawful jurisdiction. (c) (c) If this contract is terminated under paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government is entitled- (d) (d) The rights and remedies of the Government provided in this clause shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.
32.609 Delays in receipt of notices or demands. No subsections found.
30.202-2 Impracticality of submission. No subsections found.
26.506 Contract clause. No subsections found.
42.1205 Agreement to recognize contractor’s change of name. (a) (a) If only a change of the contractor’s name is involved and the Government’s and contractor’s rights and obligations remain unaffected, the parties shall execute an agreement to reflect the name change. The contractor shall forward to the responsible contracting officer three signed copies of the Change-of-Name Agreement, and one copy each of the following: (b) (b) The following suggested format for an agreement may be adapted for specific cases:
12.214 Cost Accounting Standards. No subsections found.
19.502 Setting aside acquisitions. No subsections found.
52.230-5 Cost Accounting Standards-Educational Institution. (a) (a) Unless the contract is exempt under 48 CFR 9903.201-1 and 9903.201-2, the provisions of 48 CFR 9903 are incorporated herein by reference and the Contractor, in connection with this contract, shall- (b) (b) If the parties fail to agree whether the Contractor or a subcontractor has complied with an applicable CAS or a CAS rule or regulation in 48 CFR 9903 and as to any cost adjustment demanded by the United States, such failure to agree will constitute a dispute under 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, Contract Disputes. (c) (c) The Contractor shall permit any authorized representatives of the Government to examine and make copies of any documents, papers, or records relating to compliance with the requirements of this clause. (d) (d) The Contractor shall include in all negotiated subcontracts which the Contractor enters into, the substance of this clause, except paragraph (b), and shall require such inclusion in all other subcontracts, of any tier, including the obligation to comply with all applicable CAS in effect on the subcontractor’s award date or, if the subcontractor has submitted certified cost or pricing data, on the date of final agreement on price as shown on the subcontractor’s signed Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, except that-
8.102 Policy. No subsections found.
Subpart 13.3 - Simplified Acquisition Methods No subsections found.
4.2305 Waivers. (a) (a) An executive agency required to comply with a FASCSA order may submit a request that the order or some of its provisions not apply to— (b) (b) A request for waiver shall be submitted by the executive agency in writing to the official that issued the order, unless other instructions for submission are provided by the applicable FASCSA order. (c) (c) The request for waiver shall provide the following information for the issuing official to review and evaluate the request, including— (d) (d) The contracting officer, in accordance with agency procedures and working with the program office or requiring activity, shall decide whether to pursue a waiver or to make award to an offeror that does not require a waiver in accordance with the procedures at 4.2304(f). If a waiver is being pursued, then the contracting officer may not make an award until written approval is obtained that the waiver has been granted.
29.201 General. (a) (a) Federal excise taxes are levied	on the sale or use of particular supplies or services. Subtitle	D of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, Miscellaneous Excise Taxes, 26 U.S.C.4041, etseq.,	and its implementing regulations, 26 CFR parts 40 through 299, cover	miscellaneous federal excise tax requirements. Questions arising	in this area should be directed to the agency-designated counsel.	The most common excise taxes are- (b) (b) Sometimes	the law exempts the Federal Government from these taxes. Contracting	officers should solicit prices on a tax-exclusive basis when it	is known that the Government is exempt from these taxes, and on	a tax-inclusive basis when no exemption exists. (c) (c) Executive	agencies shall take maximum advantage of available Federal excise	tax exemptions.
52.212 [Reserved] No subsections found.
16.205 Fixed-price contracts with prospective price redetermination. No subsections found.
3.907-2 Policy. No subsections found.
26.202-2 Evaluation preference. No subsections found.
FAR No subsections found.
37.500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
25.700 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Economic sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in the Department of the Treasury prohibiting transactions involving certain countries, entities, and individuals; (b) (b) The Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174) ( 50 U.S.C. 1701 note); (c) (c) The Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Iran Sanctions Act) (Pub. L. 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), including amendments by the Iran Freedom Support Act (Pub. L. 109-293), section 102 of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195), and Titles II and III of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158); and (d) (d) Prohibition against contracting with entities that export sensitive technologies to Iran (22 U.S.C. 8515).
42.901 General. No subsections found.
31.205-45 [Reserved] No subsections found.
3.302 Definitions. No subsections found.
47.205 Availability of term contracts and basic ordering agreements for transportation or for transportation-related services. (a) (a) All Government agencies may contract for transportation or for transportation-related services and execute basic ordering agreements (BOA’s) (see subpart  16.7) unless agency regulations prescribe otherwise. However, it is generally more economical and efficient for most agencies to make use of term contracts and basic ordering agreements that have been executed by agencies that employ personnel experienced in contracting for transportation or for transportation-related services. The Department of Defense (DoD) and the General Services Administration (GSA) contract for transportation or for transportation-related services on behalf of other activities and agencies. For instance, GSA awards term contracts for services such as local drayage, office moves, and ocean-freight forwarding (see 47.105 for assistance). (b) (b) Agencies may obtain transportation or transportation-related services for which the cost does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold if term contracts or basic ordering agreements are not available.
3.502-3 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.247-13 Accessorial Services-Moving Contracts. (a) (a) Packing and/or crating and padding. The Contractor shall- (b) (b) Disassembling and reassembling of property and servicing appliances. The disassembling of property;e.g., beds and sectional bookcases, and the preparing of appliances; e.g., washers, driers, and record players, for shipment shall be performed by the Contractor. The Contractor shall reassemble the property and service the appliances upon delivery at the new location. (c) (c) Unpacking and/or uncrating and placement of property. The Contractor shall unpack and/or uncrate all property that was packed and/or crated for movement under this contract. The Contractor shall also place the property in the new location as instructed by the owner of the property or authorized representative, and shall remove all packing and similar or related material from the premises as requested by the- owner.
Subpart 46.5 - Acceptance No subsections found.
46.314 Transportation contracts. No subsections found.
32.503-5 Administration of progress payments. (a) (a) While the ACO may, in approving progress payment requests under 32.503-3 of this section, rely on the contractor’s accounting system and certification without prepayment review, postpayment reviews (including audits when considered necessary) shall be made periodically, or when considered desirable by the ACO to determine the validity of progress payments already made and expected to be made. (b) (b) These postpayment reviews or audits shall, as a minimum, include a determination of whether or not- (c) (c) Under indefinite-delivery contracts, the contracting officer should administer progress payments made under each individual order as if the order constituted a separate contract, unless agency procedures provide otherwise. When the contract will be administered by an agency other than the awarding agency, the contracting officer shall coordinate with the contract administration office if the awarding agency wants the administration of progress payments to be on a basis other than order-by-order.
52.222-43 Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards-Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts). (a) (a) This clause applies to both contracts subject to area prevailing wage determinations and contracts subject to collective bargaining agreements. (b) (b) The Contractor warrants that the prices in this contract do not include any allowance for any contingency to cover increased costs for which adjustment is provided under this clause. (c) (c) The wage determination, issued under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, (41 U.S.C. chapter 67), by the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, current on the anniversary date of a multiple year contract or the beginning of each renewal option period, shall apply to this contract. If no such determination has been made applicable to this contract, then the Federal minimum wage as established by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of1938, as amended, (29 U.S.C. 206) current on the anniversary date of a multiple year contract or the beginning of each renewal option period, shall apply to this contract. (d) (d) The contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly labor rates will be adjusted to reflect the Contractor’s actual increase or decrease in applicable wages and fringe benefits to the extent that the increase is made to comply with or the decrease is voluntarily made by the Contractor as a result of: (e) (e) Any adjustment will be limited to increases or decreases in wages and fringe benefits as described in paragraph (d) of this clause, and the accompanying increases or decreases in social security and unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation insurance, but shall not otherwise include any amount for general and administrative costs, overhead, or profit. (f) (f) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any increase claimed under this clause within 30 days after receiving a new wage determination unless this notification period is extended in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of any decrease under this clause, but nothing in the clause shall preclude the Government from asserting a claim within the period permitted by law. The notice shall contain a statement of the amount claimed and the change in fixed hourly rates (if this is a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract), and any relevant supporting data, including payroll records, that the Contracting Officer may reasonably require. Upon agreement of the parties, the contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly rates shall be modified in writing. The Contractor shall continue performance pending agreement on or determination of any such adjustment and its effective date. (g) (g) The Contracting Officer or an authorized representative shall have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and records of the Contractor until the expiration of 3 years after final payment under the contract.
22.406-4 Apprentices and trainees. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall review the contractor’s employment and payment records of apprentices and trainees made available pursuant to the clause at 52.222-8, Payrolls and Basic Records, to ensure that the contractor has complied with the clause at 52.222-9, Apprentices and Trainees. (b) (b) If a contractor has classified employees as apprentices, trainees, or helpers without complying with the requirements of the clause at 52.222-9, the contracting officer shall reject the classification and require the contractor to pay the affected employees at the rates applicable to the classification of the work actually performed.
27.101 Applicability. No subsections found.
Part 36 - Construction and Architect-Engineer Contracts No subsections found.
52.232-20 Limitation of Cost. (a) (a) The parties estimate that performance of this contract, exclusive of any fee, will not cost the Government more than (1) the estimated cost specified in the Schedule or, (2)if this is a cost-sharing contract, the Government’s share of the estimated cost specified in the Schedule. The Contractor agrees to use its best efforts to perform the work specified in the Schedule and all obligations under this contract within the estimated cost, which, if this is a cost-sharing contract, includes both the Government’s and the Contractor’s share of the cost. (b) (b) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing whenever it has reason to believe that- (c) (c) As part of the notification, the Contractor shall provide the Contracting Officer a revised estimate of the total cost of performing this contract. (d) (d) Except as required by other provisions of this contract, specifically citing and stated to be an exception to this clause- (e) (e) No notice, communication, or representation in any form other than that specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this clause, or from any person other than the Contracting Officer, shall affect this contract’s estimated cost to the Government. In the absence of the specified notice, the Government is not obligated to reimburse the Contractor for any costs in excess of the estimated cost or, if this is a cost-sharing contract, for any costs in excess of the estimated cost to the Government specified in the Schedule, whether those excess costs were incurred during the course of the contract or as a result of termination. (f) (f) If the estimated cost specified in the Schedule is increased, any costs the Contractor incurs before the increase that are in excess of the previously estimated cost shall be allowable to the same extent as if incurred afterward, unless the Contracting Officer issues a termination or other notice directing that the increase is solely to cover termination or other specified expenses. (g) (g) Change orders shall not be considered an authorization to exceed the estimated cost to the Government specified in the Schedule, unless they contain a statement increasing the estimated cost. (h) (h) If this contract is terminated or the estimated cost is not increased, the Government and the Contractor shall negotiate an equitable distribution of all property produced or purchased under the contract, based upon the share of costs incurred by each.
1.503 Public meetings. No subsections found.
16.205-3 Limitations. (a) (a) Negotiations have established that- (b) (b) The contractor’s accounting system is adequate for price redetermination; (c) (c) The prospective pricing periods can be made to conform with operation of the contractor’s accounting system; and (d) (d) There is reasonable assurance that price redetermination actions will take place promptly at the specified times.
18.105 Federal Supply Schedules (FSSs), multi-agency blanket purchase agreements (BPAs), and multi-agency indefinite delivery contracts. No subsections found.
52.209-7 Information Regarding Responsibility Matters. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) The offeror □ has □ does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (d) (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the System for Award Management, which can be accessed via https://www.sam.gov (see 52.204-7).
9.505 General rules. (a) (a) Preventing the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor’s judgment; and (b) (b) Preventing unfair competitive advantage. In addition to the other situations described in this subpart, an unfair competitive advantage exists where a contractor competing for award of any Federal contract possesses-
23.406 Contract clauses. (a) (a)Insert the clause at 52.223-5, Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information, in solicitations and contracts that provide for performance, in whole or in part, on a Federal facility. (b) (b)Insert the clause at 52.223-19, Compliance With Environmental Management Systems, in solicitations and contracts for contractor operation of Government-owned or -leased facilities or vehicles located in the United States if an agency uses an EMS and contractor activities affect aspects of the agency's environmental management. For facilities located outside the United States, the agency head may determine that use of the clause is in the best interest of the Government. (c) (c)Insert the clause at 52.223-10, Waste Reduction Program, in solicitations and contracts for contractor operation of Government-owned or -leased facilities and all solicitations and contracts for support services at Government-owned or -operated facilities.
47.207-11 Volume movements within the contiguous United States. (a) (a) For purposes of contract administration, a volume movement is- (b) (b) Transportation personnel assigned to or supporting the CAO, or appropriate agency personnel, shall report planned and actual volume movements in accordance with agency regulations. DoD activities report to the Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC) under DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation. Civilian agencies report to the local office of GSA’s Office of Transportation (see www.gsa.gov/transportation (click on Transportation Management Zone Offices in left-hand column, then click on Transportation Management Zones under Contacts on right-hand column).
28.310 Contract clause for work on a Government installation. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.228-5, Insurance-Work on a Government Installation, in solicitations and contracts if a fixed-price contract is contemplated, the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, and the contract will require work on a Government installation, unless- (b) (b) The contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.228-5 in solicitations and contracts described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section if it is in the Government’s interest to do so.
32.503-11 Adjustments for price reduction. (a) (a) If a retroactive downward price reduction occurs under a redeterminable contract that provides for progress payments, the contracting officer shall- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall also increase the unliquidated progress payments amount if the contractor makes an interim or voluntary price reduction under a redeterminable or incentive contract.
49.105 Duties of termination contracting officer after issuance of notice of termination. (a) (a) Consistent with the termination clause and the notice of termination, the TCO shall- (b) (b) To expedite settlement, the TCO may request specially qualified personnel to- (c) (c) The TCO should promptly hold a conference with the contractor to develop a definite program for effecting the settlement. When appropriate in the judgment of the TCO, after consulting with the contractor, principal subcontractors should be requested to attend. Topics that should be discussed at the conference and documented include-
19.1508 Contract clauses. (a) (a)The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Economically Disadvantaged Women-owned Small Business Concerns, in solicitations and contracts for acquisitions that are set aside or awarded on a sole-source basis to, EDWOSB concerns under 19.1505(b) or 19.1506(a). This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for EDWOSB concerns as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) or when orders may be issued directly to one EDWOSB contractor in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii). (b) (b)The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Women-Owned Small Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program, in solicitations and contracts for acquisitions that are set aside or awarded on a sole-source basis to WOSB concerns under 19.1505(c) or 19.1506(b). This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) or when orders may be issued directly to one WOSB contractor in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii). (c) (c)For use of clause 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, see the prescription at 19.507(e). (d) (d)For use of clause 52.219-33, Nonmanufacturer Rule, see the prescription at 19.507(h).
8.406-7 Contractor Performance Evaluation. No subsections found.
14.404 Rejection of bids. No subsections found.
52.247-7 Freight Excluded. No subsections found.
Subpart 19.7 - The Small Business Subcontracting Program No subsections found.
41.103 Statutory and delegated authority. (a) (a) Statutory authority. (b) (b) Delegated authority. GSA has delegated its authority to enter into utility service contracts for periods not exceeding tenyears to DoD and DOE, and for connection charges only to the Department of Veteran Affairs. Contracting pursuant to this delegated authority shall be consistent with the requirements of this part. Other agencies requiring utility service contracts for periods over oneyear, but not exceeding tenyears, may request a delegation of authority from GSA at the address specified in 41.301(a). In keeping with its statutory authority, GSA will, as necessary, conduct reviews of delegated agencies’ acquisitions of utility services to ensure compliance with the terms of the delegation and applicable laws and regulations. (c) (c) Requests for delegations of contracting authority from GSA shall include a certification from the acquiring agency’s Senior Procurement Executive that the agency has-
42.709-1 Scope. (a) (a) This section implements 10 U.S.C. 3743 and 41 U.S.C. 4303. It covers the assessment of penalties against contractors which include unallowable indirect costs in- (b) (b) This section applies to all contracts in excess of $800,000, except fixed-price contracts without cost incentives or any firm-fixed-price contracts for the purchase of commercial products or commercial services.
30.201-3 Solicitation provisions. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.230-1, Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification, in solicitations for proposed contracts subject to CAS as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201. (b) (b) If an award to an educational institution is contemplated prior to July 1, 1997, the contracting officer shall insert the basic provision set forth at 52.230-1 with its Alternate I, unless the contract is to be performed by a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) (see 48 CFR 9903.201-2(c)(5) ), or the provision at 48 CFR 9903.201-2(c)(6) applies. (c) (c) Insert the provision at FAR 52.230-7, Proposal Disclosure-Cost Accounting Practice Changes, in solicitations for contracts subject to CAS as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201.
52.222-6 Construction Wage Rate Requirements. (a) (a) Definition.—"Site of the work"— (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) Whenever the minimum wage rate prescribed in the contract for a class of laborers or mechanics includes a fringe benefit which is not expressed as an hourly rate, the Contractor shall either pay the benefit as stated in the wage determination or shall pay another bona fide fringe benefit or an hourly cash equivalent thereof. (e) (e) If the Contractor does not make payments to a trustee or other third person, the Contractor may consider as part of the wages of any laborer or mechanic the amount of any costs reasonably anticipated in providing bona fide fringe benefits under a plan or program; provided, That the Secretary of Labor has found, upon the written request of the Contractor, that the applicable standards of the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute have been met. The Secretary of Labor may require the Contractor to set aside in a separate account assets for the meeting of obligations under the plan or program.
42.1104 Surveillance requirements. (a) (a) The contract administration office determines the extent of production surveillance on the basis of- (b) (b) Contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold should not normally require production surveillance. (c) (c) In planning and conducting surveillance, contract administration offices shall make maximum use of any reliable contractor production control or data management systems. (d) (d) In performing surveillance, contract administration office personnel shall avoid any action that may-
52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim. No subsections found.
44.302 Requirements. (a) (a) The ACO shall determine the need for a CPSR based on, but not limited to, the past performance of the contractor, and the volume, complexity and dollar value of subcontracts. If a contractor’s sales to the Government (excluding competitively awarded firm-fixed-price and competitively awarded fixed-price with economic price adjustment contracts and sales of commercial supplies and commercial services pursuant to part  12) are expected to exceed $25 million during the next 12 months, perform a review to determine if a CPSR is needed. Sales include those represented by prime contracts, subcontracts under Government prime contracts, and modifications. Generally, a CPSR is not performed for a specific contract. The head of the agency responsible for contract administration may raise or lower the $25 million review level if it is considered to be in the Government’s best interest. (b) (b) Once an initial determination has been made under paragraph (a) of this section, at least every three years the ACO shall determine whether a purchasing system review is necessary. If necessary, the cognizant contract administration office will conduct a purchasing system review.
4.2004 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.203-18 Prohibition on Contracting with Entities that Require Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or Statements-Representation. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this provision- (b) (b) In accordance with section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions), Government agencies are not permitted to use funds appropriated (or otherwise made available) for contracts with an entity that requires employees or subcontractors of such entity seeking to report waste, fraud, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information. (c) (c) The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this provision does not contravene requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, (Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement), Form 4414 (Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement), or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified information. (d) (d) Representation. By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it will not require its employees or subcontractors to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of a Government contract to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information (e.g., agency Office of the Inspector General).
22.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 32.6 - Contract Debts No subsections found.
49.402-1 The Government’s right. (a) (a) Make delivery of the supplies or perform the services within the time specified in the contract, (b) (b) Perform any other provision of the contract, or (c) (c) Make progress and that failure endangers performance of the contract.
4.1302 Acquisition of approved products and services for personal identity verification. (a) (a) In order to comply with FIPS PUB 201, agencies must purchase only approved personal identity verification products and services. (b) (b) Agencies may acquire the approved products and services from the GSA, Federal Supply Schedule 70, Special Item Number (SIN) 132-62, HSPD-12 Product and Service Components, in accordance with ordering procedures outlined in FAR subpart  8.4. (c) (c) When acquiring personal identity verification products and services not using the process in paragraph (b) of this section, agencies must ensure that the applicable products and services are approved as compliant with FIPS PUB 201 including- (d) (d) For more information on	personal identity verification products and services see http://www.idmanagement.gov.
9.405-2 Restrictions on subcontracting. (a) (a) When a contractor debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, is proposed as a subcontractor for any subcontract subject to Government consent (see subpart  44.2), contracting officers shall not consent to subcontracts with such contractors unless the agency head states in writing the compelling reasons for this approval action. (See 9.405 concerning declarations of ineligibility affecting sub-contracting.) (b) (b) The Government suspends or debars contractors to protect the Government’s interests. Contractors are prohibited from entering into any subcontract in excess of $35,000, other than a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf item, with a contractor that has been debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, unless there is a compelling reason to do so. If a contractor intends to enter into a subcontract in excess of $35,000, other than a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf item, with a party that is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, as evidenced by the party's having an active exclusion record in SAM (see 9.404), a corporate officer or designee of the contractor is required by operation of the clause at 52.209-6, Protecting the Government’s Interest when Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, Proposed for Debarment, or Voluntarily Excluded, to notify the contracting officer, in writing, before entering into such subcontract. For contracts for the acquisition of commercial products, the notification requirement applies only for first-tier subcontracts. For all other contracts, the notification requirement applies to subcontracts at any tier. The notice must provide the following: (c) (c) The contractor’s compliance with the requirements of 52.209-6 will be reviewed during Contractor Purchasing System Reviews (see subpart  44.3).
Subpart 23.4 - Pollution Prevention, Environmental Management Systems, and Waste Reduction No subsections found.
15.302 Source selection objective. No subsections found.
49.109-5 Partial settlements. (a) (a) The issues on which agreement has been reached are clearly severable from other issues and (b) (b) The partial settlement will not prejudice the Government’s or contractor’s interests in disposing of the unsettled part of the settlement proposal.
4.702 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to records generated under contracts that contain one of the following clauses: (b) (b) This subpart is not mandatory on Department of Energy contracts for which the Comptroller General allows alternative records retention periods. Apart from this exception, this subpart applies to record retention periods under contracts that are subject to 10 U.S.C. chapter 137 legacy provisions ( 10 U.S.C. 3064) and 10 U.S.C. 3016 and chapter 203, or 40 U.S.C. 101, et seq.
32.701 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.1002 Statutory and Executive order requirements. No subsections found.
50.204 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies should- (b) (b) Agencies shall not solicit offers contingent upon SAFETY Act designation or certification occurring before contract award unless authorized in accordance with 50.205-3. (c) (c) Agencies shall not solicit offers or award contracts presuming DHS will issue a SAFETY Act designation or certification after contract award unless authorized in accordance with 50.205-4. (d) (d) The DHS determination to extend SAFETY Act protections for a particular technology is not a determination that the technology meets, or fails to meet, the requirements of a solicitation.
17.503 Ordering procedures. (a) (a) Before placing an order for supplies or services with another Government agency, the requesting agency shall follow the procedures in 17.502-1 and, if under the Economy Act, also 17.502-2. (b) (b) The order may be placed on any form or document that is acceptable to both agencies. The order should include- (c) (c) The requesting and servicing agencies should agree to procedures for the resolution of disagreements that may arise under interagency acquisitions, including, in appropriate circumstances, the use of a third-party forum. If a third party is proposed, consent of the third party should be obtained in writing. (d) (d) When an interagency acquisition requires the servicing agency to award a contract, the following procedures also apply: (e) (e) Nonsponsoring Federal agencies may use a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) only if the terms of the FFRDC’s sponsoring agreement permit work from other than a sponsoring agency. Work placed with the FFRDC is subject to the acceptance by the sponsor and must fall within the purpose, mission, general scope of effort, or special competency of the FFRDC. (See 35.017; see also 6.302 for procedures to follow where using other than full and open competition.) The nonsponsoring agency shall provide to the sponsoring agency necessary documentation that the requested work would not place the FFRDC in direct competition with domestic private industry.
36.206 Liquidated damages. No subsections found.
52.215-16 Facilities Capital Cost of Money. (a) (a) Facilities capital cost of money will be an allowable cost under the contemplated contract, if the criteria for allowability in FAR 31.205-10(b) are met. One of the allowability criteria requires the prospective Contractor to propose facilities capital cost of money in its offer. (b) (b) If the prospective Contractor does not propose this cost, the resulting contract will include the clause Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money.
52.229-13 Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan. (a) (a) Definition. U.S. Forces, as used in this clause, means the entity comprising the members of the force and of the civilian component, and all property, equipment, and materiel of the United States Armed Forces present in the territory of Afghanistan. (b) (b) Tax exemption. This acquisition is covered by the Security and Defense Cooperation Agreement (the Agreement) between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (Afghanistan) and the United States of America signed on September 30, 2014, and entered into force on January 1, 2015. (c) (c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts including subcontracts for commercial products or commercial services.
46.503 Place of acceptance. No subsections found.
13.004 Legal effect of quotations. (a) (a) A quotation is not an offer and, consequently, cannot be accepted by the Government to form a binding contract. Therefore, issuance by the Government of an order in response to a supplier’s quotation does not establish a contract. The order is an offer by the Government to the supplier to buy certain supplies or services upon specified terms and conditions. A contract is established when the supplier accepts the offer. (b) (b) When appropriate, the contracting officer may ask the supplier to indicate acceptance of an order by notification to the Government, preferably in writing, as defined at 2.101. In other circumstances, the supplier may indicate acceptance by furnishing the supplies or services ordered or by proceeding with the work to the point where substantial performance has occurred. (c) (c) If the Government issues an order resulting from a quotation, the Government may (by written notice to the supplier, at any time before acceptance occurs) withdraw, amend, or cancel its offer. (See 13.302-4 for procedures on termination or cancellation of purchase orders.)
13.003 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies shall use simplified acquisition procedures to the maximum extent practicable for all purchases of supplies or services not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold (including purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold). This policy does not apply if an agency can meet its requirement using- (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) An agency that has specific statutory authority to acquire personal services (see 37.104) may use simplified acquisition procedures to acquire those services. (e) (e) Agencies shall use the Governmentwide commercial purchase card and electronic purchasing techniques to the maximum extent practicable in conducting simplified acquisitions (but see 32.1108(b)(2)). (f) (f) Agencies shall maximize the use of electronic commerce when practicable and cost-effective (see subpart  4.5). Drawings and lengthy specifications can be provided off-line in hard copy or through other appropriate means. (g) (g) Authorized individuals shall make purchases in the simplified manner that is most suitable, efficient, and economical based on the circumstances of each acquisition. For acquisitions not expected to exceed- (h) (h) In addition to other considerations, contracting officers shall-
46.504 Certificate of conformance. (a) (a) Acceptance on the basis of a contractor’s certificate of conformance is in the Government’s interest. (b) (b)
52.229-14 Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan (North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement). (a) (a) Definition. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Forces, as used in this clause, means the Members of the Force, Members of the Civilian Component, NATO Personnel and all property, equipment, and materiel of NATO, NATO Member States, and Operational Partners present in the territory of Afghanistan. (b) (b) Tax exemption. This acquisition is covered by the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) entered into between NATO and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (Afghanistan) issued on September 30, 2014, and entered into force on January 1, 2015. (c) (c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts including subcontracts for commercial products or commercial services.
9.206-3 Competition. (a) (a) Presolicitation. If a qualification requirement applies to an acquisition, the contracting officer shall review the applicable QPL, QML, or QBL or other identification of those sources which have met the requirement before issuing a solicitation to ascertain whether the number of sources is adequate for competition. (See 9.204(a) for duties of the agency activity responsible for establishment of the qualification requirement.) If the number of sources is inadequate, the contracting officer shall request the agency activity which established the requirement to- (b) (b) Post solicitation. The contracting officer shall submit to the agency activity which established the qualification requirement the names and addresses of concerns which expressed interest in the acquisition but are not included on the applicable QPL, QML, or QBL or identified as meeting the qualification requirement. The activity will then assist interested concerns in meeting the standards specified for qualification (see 9.202(a)(2) and (4)).
36.201 Evaluation of contractor performance. No subsections found.
52.215-11 Price Reduction for	Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. (a) (a) This clause shall become operative	only for any modification to this contract involving a pricing adjustment	expected to exceed the threshold for submission of certified cost	or pricing data in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.403-4(a)(1) on the	date of execution of the modification, except that this clause does	not apply to any modification if an exception under FAR 15.403-1(b) applies. (b) (b) If any price,	including profit or fee, negotiated in connection with any modification	under this clause, or any cost reimbursable under this contract,	was increased by any significant amount because (1) the Contractor	or a subcontractor furnished certified cost or pricing data that	were not complete, accurate, and current as certified in its Certificate	of Current Cost or Pricing Data, (2)a subcontractor or prospective	subcontractor furnished the Contractor certified cost or pricing	data that were not complete, accurate, and current as certified	in the Contractor’s Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, or	(3) any of these parties furnished data of any description that	were not accurate, the price or cost shall be reduced accordingly	and the contract shall be modified to reflect the reduction. This	right to a price reduction is limited to that resulting from defects	in data relating to modifications for which this clause becomes	operative under paragraph (a) of this clause. (c) (c) Any reduction	in the contract price under paragraph (b) of this clause due to	defective data from a prospective subcontractor that was not subsequently	awarded the subcontract shall be limited to the amount, plus applicable	overhead and profit markup, by which (1) the actual subcontract	or (2) the actual cost to the Contractor, if there was no subcontract,	was less than the prospective subcontract cost estimate submitted	by the Contractor; provided, that the actual subcontract price was	not itself affected by defective certified cost or pricing data. (d) (d) (e) (e) If any	reduction in the contract price under this clause reduces the price	of items for which payment was made prior to the date of the modification	reflecting the price reduction, the Contractor shall be liable to	and shall pay the United States at the time such overpayment is	repaid-
17.504 Reporting requirements. (a) (a) The senior procurement executive for each executive agency shall submit to the Director of OMB an annual report on interagency acquisitions, as directed by OMB. (b) (b) The contracting officer for the servicing agency shall ensure that service contractor reporting requirements are met in accordance with subpart  4.17, Service Contracts Inventory.
50.203 General. (a) (a) As part of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Pub. L. 107-296, Congress enacted the SAFETY Act to- (b) (b) The SAFETY Act’s liability protections are complementary to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002. (c) (c) Questions concerning the SAFETY Act may be directed to DHS Office of SAFETY Act Implementation (OSAI). Additional information about the SAFETY Act may be found at http://www.SAFETYAct.gov. Included on this website are block designations and block certifications granted by DHS.
22.1005 [Reserved] No subsections found.
42.003 Cognizant Federal agency. (a) (a) For contractors other than educational institutions and nonprofit organizations, the cognizant Federal agency normally will be the agency with the largest dollar amount of negotiated contracts, including options. For educational institutions (defined as institutions of higher education in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, and 20 U .S.C. 1001) and nonprofit organizations (as defined in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200), the cognizant Federal agency for indirect costs is established according to the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, appendices III and IV, respectively. (b) (b) Once a Federal agency assumes cognizance for a contractor, it should remain cognizant for at least 5 years to ensure continuity and ease of administration. If, at the end of the 5-year period, another agency has the largest dollar amount of negotiated contracts, including options, the two agencies shall coordinate and determine which will assume cognizance. However, if circumstances warrant it and the affected agencies agree, cognizance may transfer prior to the expiration of the 5-year period.
32.706 Contract clauses. No subsections found.
14.409-1 Award of unclassified contracts. (a) (a) (b) (b) Information included in paragraph (a)(2) of this subsection shall be provided to any unsuccessful bidder upon request except when multiple awards have been made and furnishing information on the successful bids would require so much work as to interfere with normal operations of the contracting office. In such circumstances, only information concerning location of the abstract of offers need be given. (c) (c) When a request is received concerning an unclassified invitation from an inquirer who is neither a bidder nor a representative of a bidder, the contracting officer should make every effort to furnish the names of successful bidders and, if requested, the prices at which awards were made. However, when such requests require so much work as to interfere with the normal operations of the contracting office, the inquirer will be advised where a copy of the abstract of offers may be seen. (d) (d) Requests for records shall be governed by agency regulations implementing subpart  24.2.
4.705 Specific retention periods. No subsections found.
15.305 Proposal evaluation. (a) (a) Proposal evaluation is an assessment of the proposal and the offeror’s ability to perform the prospective contract successfully. An agency shall evaluate competitive proposals and then assess their relative qualities solely on the factors and subfactors specified in the solicitation. Evaluations may be conducted using any rating method or combination of methods, including color or adjectival ratings, numerical weights, and ordinal rankings. The relative strengths, deficiencies, significant weaknesses, and risks supporting proposal evaluation shall be documented in the contract file. (b) (b) The source selection authority may reject all proposals received in response to a solicitation, if doing so is in the best interest of the Government. (c) (c) For restrictions on the use of support contractor personnel in proposal evaluation, see 37.203(d).
49.109-2 Reservations. (a) (a) The TCO shall- (b) (b) A recommended format for settlement of reservations appears in 49.603-9.
Subpart 23.3 - Hazardous Material Identification, Material Safety Data, and Notice of Radioactive Materials No subsections found.
49.402-6 Repurchase against contractor’s account. (a) (a) When the supplies or services are still required after termination, the contracting officer shall repurchase the same or similar supplies or services against the contractor’s account as soon as practicable. The contracting officer shall repurchase at as reasonable a price as practicable, considering the quality and delivery requirements. The contracting officer may repurchase a quantity in excess of the undelivered quantity terminated for default when the excess quantity is needed, but excess cost may not be charged against the defaulting contractor for more than the undelivered quantity terminated for default (including variations in quantity permitted by the terminated contract). Generally, the contracting officer will make a decision whether or not to repurchase before issuing the termination notice. (b) (b) If the repurchase is for a quantity not over the undelivered quantity terminated for default, the Default clause authorizes the contracting officer to use any terms and acquisition method deemed appropriate for the repurchase. However, the contracting officer shall obtain competition to the maximum extent practicable for the repurchase. The contracting officer shall cite the Default clause as the authority. If the repurchase is for a quantity over the undelivered quantity terminated for default, the contracting officer shall treat the entire quantity as a new acquisition. (c) (c) If repurchase is made at a price over the price of the supplies or services terminated, the contracting officer shall, after completion and final payment of the repurchase contract, make written demand on the contractor for the total amount of the excess, giving consideration to any increases or decreases in other costs such as transportation, discounts, etc. If the contractor fails to make payment, the contracting officer shall follow the procedures in subpart  32.6 for collecting contract debts due the Government.
25.602-1 Section 1605 of the Recovery Act. (a) (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by the Recovery Act may be used for a project for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public building or public work unless the public building or public work is located in the United States and- (b) (b) Manufactured materials purchased directly by the Government and delivered to the site for incorporation into the project shall meet the same domestic source requirements as specified for manufactured construction material in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and (c) (c) A project may include several contracts, a single contract, or one or more line items on a contract.
37.113-2 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) Use the provision at 52.237-8, Restriction on Severance Payments to Foreign Nationals, in all solicitations that meet the criteria in 37.113-1(a), except for those excluded by 37.113-1(c). (b) (b) When the head of an agency has granted a waiver pursuant to 37.113-1, use the clause at 52.237-9, Waiver of Limitation on Severance Payments to Foreign Nationals.
Subpart 32.1 - Financing for Other Than a Commercial Purchase No subsections found.
38.101 General. (a) (a) The Federal Supply Schedule program, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 152(3), provides Federal agencies with a simplified process of acquiring commercial supplies and commercial services in varying quantities while obtaining volume discounts. Indefinite-delivery contracts are awarded using competitive procedures to firms. The firms provide supplies and services at stated prices for given periods of time, for delivery within a stated geographic area such as the 48 contiguous states, the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, and overseas. The schedule contracting office issues Federal Supply Schedule publications that contain a general overview of the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) program and address pertinent topics. (b) (b) Each schedule identifies agencies that are required to use the contracts as primary sources of supply. (c) (c) Federal agencies not identified in the schedules as mandatory users may issue orders under the schedules. Contractors are encouraged to accept the orders. (d) (d) Although GSA awards most Federal Supply Schedule contracts, it may authorize other agencies to award schedule contracts and publish schedules. For example, the Department of Veterans Affairs awards schedule contracts for certain medical and nonperishable subsistence items. (e) (e) When establishing Federal Supply Schedules, GSA, or an agency delegated that authority, is responsible for complying with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements (e.g., parts  5, 6, and 19). The requirements of parts 5, 6, and 19 apply at the acquisition planning stage prior to issuing the schedule solicitation and, generally, do not apply to orders and BPAs placed under resulting schedule contracts (except see 8.404 and 8.405-5).
52.211-7 Alternatives to Government-Unique Standards. (a) (a) This solicitation includes Government-unique standards. The offeror may propose voluntary consensus standards that meet the Government’s requirements as alternatives to the Government-unique standards. The Government will accept use of the voluntary consensus standard instead of the Government-unique standard if it meets the Government’s requirements unless inconsistent with law or otherwise impractical. (b) (b) If an alternative standard is proposed, the offeror must furnish data and/or information regarding the alternative in sufficient detail for the Government to determine if it meets the Government’s requirements. Acceptance of the alternative standard is a unilateral decision made solely at the discretion of the Government. (c) (c) Offers that do not comply with the Government-unique standards specified in this solicitation may be determined to be nonresponsive or unacceptable. The offeror may submit an offer that complies with the Government-unique standards specified in this solicitation, in addition to any proposed alternative standard(s).
11.602 General. (a) (a) Under Title I of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App.2061, et seq.), the President is authorized to require preferential acceptance and performance of contracts and orders supporting certain approved national defense and energy programs and to allocate materials, services, and facilities in such a manner as to promote these approved programs. (b) (b) The President delegated the priorities and allocations authorities of the Defense Production Act in Executive Order 12919. As part of that delegation, the President designated the Secretary of Commerce to administer the DPAS. For more information, check the DPAS website at: https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/other-areas/strategic-industries-and-economic-security-sies/defense-priorities-a-allocations-system-program-dpas.
15.403-1 Prohibition on obtaining certified cost or pricing data (10 U.S.C. chapter 271 and 41 U.S.C. CHAPTER 35). (a) (a) Certified cost or pricing data shall not be obtained for acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. (b) (b) Exceptions to certified cost or pricing data requirements. The contracting officer shall not require certified cost or pricing data to support any action (contracts, subcontracts, or modifications) (but may require data other than certified cost or pricing data as defined in FAR 2.101 to support a determination of a fair and reasonable price or cost realism)— (c) (c) Standards for exceptions from certified cost or pricing data requirements—
4.2003 Notification. No subsections found.
44.305 Granting, withholding, or withdrawing approval. No subsections found.
52.233-3 Protest after Award. (a) (a) Upon receipt of a notice of protest (as defined in FAR 33.101) or a determination that a protest is likely (see FAR 33.102(d)), the Contracting Officer may, by written order to the Contractor, direct the Contractor to stop performance of the work called for by this contract. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stop-page. Upon receipt of the final decision in the protest, the Contracting Officer shall either- (b) (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled either before or after a final decision in the protest, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if- (c) (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order. (e) (e) The Government’s rights to terminate this contract at any time are not affected by action taken under this clause. (f) (f) If, as the result of the Contractor’s intentional or negligent misstatement, misrepresentation, or miscertification, a protest related to this contract is sustained, and the Government pays costs, as provided in FAR 33.102(b)(2) or 33.104(h)(1), the Government may require the Contractor to reimburse the Government the amount of such costs. In addition to any other remedy available, and pursuant to the requirements of subpart  32.6, the Government may collect this debt by offsetting the amount against any payment due the Contractor under any contract between the Contractor and the Government.
42.1103 Policy. No subsections found.
Subpart 9.7 - Defense Production Pools and Research and Development Pools No subsections found.
52.222-1 Notice to the Government of Labor Disputes. No subsections found.
30.201-4 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Cost accounting standards. (b) (b) Disclosure and consistency of cost accounting practices. (c) (c) Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices-Foreign Concerns. (d) (d) Administration of cost accounting standards. (e) (e) Cost accounting standards-educational institutions.
32.111 Contract clauses for non-commercial purchases. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the following clauses, appropriately modified with respect to payment due dates, in accordance with agency regulations- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the following clauses, appropriately modified with respect to payment due dates in accordance with agency regulations: (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the following clauses, appropriately modified with respect to payments due dates in accordance with agency regulations:
42.709-6 Waiver of the penalty. (a) (a) The contractor withdraws the proposal before the Government formally initiates an audit of the proposal and the contractor submits a revised proposal (an audit will be deemed to be formally initiated when the Government provides the contractor with written notice, or holds an entrance conference, indicating that audit work on a specific final indirect cost proposal has begun); (b) (b) The amount of the unallowable costs under the proposal which are subject to the penalty is $10,000 or less (i.e., if the amount of expressly or previously determined unallowable costs which would be allocated to the contracts specified in 42.709-1(b) is $10,000 or less); or (c) (c) The contractor demonstrates, to the cognizant contracting officer’s satisfaction, that-
52.247-29 F.o.b. Origin. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. origin," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered- (b) (b) The Contractor shall- (c) (c) These Contractor responsibilities are specified for performance at the plant or plants at which the supplies are to be finally inspected and accepted, unless the facilities for shipment by carrier’s equipment are not available at the Contractor’s plant, in which case the responsibilities shall be performed f.o.b. the point or points in the same or nearest city where the specified carrier’s facilities are available; subject, however, to the following qualifications:
32.503-16 Risk of loss. (a) (a) Under the Progress Payments clause, and except for normal spoilage, the contractor bears the risk of loss for Government property under the clause, even though title is vested in the Government, unless the Government has expressly assumed this risk. The clauses prescribed in this regulation related to progress payments, default, and terminations do not constitute a Government assumption of this risk. (b) (b) If a loss occurs in connection with property for which the contractor bears the risk, the contractor is obligated to repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments based on costs allocable to the property. (c) (c) The contractor is not obligated to pay for the loss of property for which the Government has assumed the risk of loss. However, a serious loss may impede the satisfactory progress of contract performance, so that the contracting officer may need to act under paragraph (c)(5) of the Progress Payments clause.
49.102 Notice of termination. (a) (a) General. The contracting officer shall terminate contracts for convenience or default only by a written notice to the contractor (see 49.601). The notice of termination may be expedited by means of electronic communication capable of providing confirmation of receipt by the contractor. When the notice is mailed, it shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. When the contracting office arranges for hand delivery of the notice, a written acknowledgment shall be obtained from the contractor. The notice shall state- (b) (b) Distribution of copies. The contracting officer shall simultaneously send the termination notice to the contractor, and a copy to the contract administration office and to any known assignee, guarantor, or surety of the contractor. (c) (c) Amendment of termination notice. The contracting officer may amend a termination notice to- (d) (d) Reinstatement of terminated contracts. Upon written consent of the contractor, the contracting office may reinstate the terminated portion of a contract in whole or in part by amending the notice of termination if it has been determined in writing that-
14.403 Recording of bids. (a) (a) Standard Form 1409, Abstract of Offers, or Optional Form 1419, Abstract of Offers-Construction (or automated equivalent), shall be completed and certified as to its accuracy by the bid opening officer as soon after bid opening as practicable. Where bid items are too numerous to warrant complete recording of all bids, abstract entries for individual bids may be limited to item numbers and bid prices. In preparing these forms, the extra columns and SF 1410, Abstract of Offers-Continuation, and OF 1419A, Abstract of Offer-Construction, Continuation Sheet, may be used to label and record such information as the contracting activity deems necessary. (b) (b) Abstracts of offers for unclassified acquisitions shall be available for public inspection. Such abstracts shall not contain information regarding failure to meet minimum standards of responsibility, apparent collusion of bidders, or other notations properly exempt from disclosure to the public in accordance with agency regulations implementing subpart  24.2. (c) (c) The forms identified in paragraph (a) of this section need not be used by the Defense Energy Support Center for acquisitions of coal or petroleum products or by the Defense Supply Center Philadelphia for perishable subsistence items. (d) (d) If an invitation for bids is canceled before the time set for bid opening, this fact shall be recorded together with a statement of the number of bids invited and the number of bids received.
33.209 Suspected fraudulent claims. No subsections found.
5.003 Governmentwide point of entry. No subsections found.
31.601 Purpose. No subsections found.
23.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
32.1109 EFT information submitted by offerors. No subsections found.
47.301-1 Responsibilities of contracting officers. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall obtain from traffic management offices transportation factors required for- (b) (b) Contracting officers shall request transportation office participation especially before making an initial acquisition of supplies that are unusually large, heavy, high, wide, or long; have sensitive or dangerous characteristics; or lend themselves to containerized movements from the source. In determining total transportation charges, contracting officers shall also consider additional costs arising from factors such as the use of special equipment, excess blocking and bracing material, or circuitous routing.
9.502 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to contracts with either profit or nonprofit organizations, including nonprofit organizations created largely or wholly with Government funds. (b) (b) The applicability of this subpart is not limited to any particular kind of acquisition. However, organizational conflicts of interest are more likely to occur in contracts involving- (c) (c) An organizational conflict of interest may result when factors create an actual or potential conflict of interest on an instant contract, or when the nature of the work to be performed on the instant contract creates an actual or potential conflict of interest on a future acquisition. In the latter case, some restrictions on future activities of the contractor may be required. (d) (d) Acquisitions subject to unique agency organizational conflict of interest statutes are excluded from the requirements of this subpart.
18.102 System for Award Management. (a) (a) In accordance with 4.1102, contractors are not required to be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) at the time of submission of offers or quotations for— (b) (b) However, contractors are required to be registered in SAM in order to gain access to the Disaster Response Registry. (c) (c) Contracting officers shall consult the Disaster Response Registry via https://www.sam.gov., Search Records, Advanced Search, Disaster Response Registry Search to determine the availability of contractors for debris removal, distribution of supplies, reconstruction, and other disaster or emergency relief activities inside the United States and outlying areas. (See 26.205).
16.205-4 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.232-27 Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts. (a) (a) Invoice payments- (b) (b) Contract financing payments. If this contract provides for contract financing, the Government will make contract financing payments in accordance with the applicable contract financing clause. (c) (c) Subcontract clause requirements. The Contractor shall include in each subcontract for property or services (including a material supplier) for the purpose of performing this contract the following: (d) (d) Subcontract clause interpretation. The clauses required by paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be construed to impair the right of the Contractor or a subcontractor at any tier to negotiate, and to include in their subcontract, provisions that- (e) (e) Subcontractor withholding procedures. If a Contractor, after making a request for payment to the Government but before making a payment to a subcontractor for the subcontractor’s performance covered by the payment request, discovers that all or a portion of the payment otherwise due such subcontractor is subject to withholding from the subcontractor in accordance with the subcontract agreement, then the Contractor shall- (f) (f) Third-party deficiency reports- (g) (g) Written notice of subcontractor withholding. The Contractor shall issue a written notice of any withholding to a subcontractor (with a copy furnished to the Contracting Officer), specifying- (h) (h) Subcontractor payment entitlement. The Contractor may not request payment from the Government of any amount withheld or retained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause until such time as the Contractor has determined and certified to the Contracting Officer that the subcontractor is entitled to the payment of such amount. (i) (i) Prime-subcontractor disputes. A dispute between the Contractor and subcontractor relating to the amount or entitlement of a subcontractor to a payment or a late payment interest penalty under a clause included in the subcontract pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause does not constitute a dispute to which the Government is a party. The Government may not be interpleaded in any judicial or administrative proceeding involving such a dispute. (j) (j) Preservation of prime-subcontractor rights. Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this clause, this clause shall not limit or impair any contractual, administrative, or judicial remedies otherwise available to the Contractor or a subcontractor in the event of a dispute involving late payment or nonpayment by the Contractor or deficient subcontract performance or nonperformance by a subcontractor. (k) (k) Non-recourse for prime contractor interest penalty. The Contractor’s obligation to pay an interest penalty to a subcontractor pursuant to the clauses included in a subcontract under paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be construed to be an obligation of the Government for such interest penalty. A cost-reimbursement claim may not include any amount for reimbursement of such interest penalty. (l) (l) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-
Part 31 - Contract Cost Principles and Procedures No subsections found.
32.503-2 Supervision of progress payments. (a) (a) The extent of progress payments supervision, by prepayment review or periodic review, should vary inversely with the contractor’s experience, performance record, reliability, quality of management, and financial strength, and with the adequacy of the contractor’s accounting system and controls. Supervision shall be of a kind and degree sufficient to provide timely knowledge of the need for, and timely opportunity for, any actions necessary to protect Government interests. (b) (b) The administering office must keep itself informed of the contractor’s overall operations and financial condition, since difficulties encountered and losses suffered in operations outside the particular progress payment contract may affect adversely the performance of that contract and the liquidation of the progress payments. (c) (c) For contracts with contractors- (d) (d) So far as practicable, all cost problems, particularly those involving indirect costs, that are likely to create disagreements in future administration of the contract should be identified and resolved at the inception of the contract (see 31.109).
22.406-3 Additional classifications. (a) (a) If any laborer or mechanic is to be employed in a classification that is not listed in the wage determination applicable to the contract, the contracting officer, pursuant to the clause at 52.222-6, Construction Wage Rate Requirements, shall require that the contractor submit to the contracting officer, Standard Form (SF) 1444, Request for Authorization of Additional Classification and Rate, which, along with other pertinent data, contains the proposed additional classification and minimum wage rate including any fringe benefits payments. (b) (b) Upon receipt of SF 1444 from the contractor, the contracting officer shall review the request to determine whether it meets the following criteria: (c) (c) (d) (d) (e) (e) In each option to extend the term of the contract, if any laborer or mechanic is to be employed during the option in a classification that is not listed (or no longer listed) on the wage determination incorporated in that option, the contracting officer must require that the contractor submit a request for conformance using the procedures noted in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
52.222-44 Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards-Price Adjustment. (a) (a) This clause applies to both contracts subject to area prevailing wage determinations and contracts subject to Contractor collective bargaining agreements. (b) (b) The Contractor warrants that the prices in this contract do not include any allowance for any contingency to cover increased costs for which adjustment is provided under this clause. (c) (c) The contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly labor rates will be adjusted to reflect increases or decreases by the Contractor in wages and fringe benefits to the extent that these increases or decreases are made to comply with- (d) (d) Any such adjustment will be limited to increases or decreases in wages and fringe benefits as described in paragraph (c) of this clause, and to the accompanying increases or decreases in social security and unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation insurance; it shall not otherwise include any amount for general and administrative costs, overhead, or profit. (e) (e) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any increase claimed under this clause within 30 days after the effective date of the wage change, unless this period is extended by the Contracting Officer in writing. The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of any decrease under this clause, but nothing in the clause shall preclude the Government from asserting a claim within the period permitted by law. The notice shall contain a statement of the amount and the change in fixed hourly rates (if this is a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract) claimed and any relevant supporting data that the Contracting Officer may reasonably require. Upon agreement of the parties, the contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly rates shall be modified in writing. The Contractor shall continue performance pending agreement on or determination of any such adjustment and its effective date. (f) (f) The Contracting Officer or an authorized representative shall, until the expiration of 3 years after final payment under the contract, have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of the Contractor.
52.228 [Reserved] No subsections found.
46.313 Contracts for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements. No subsections found.
Subpart 46.2 - Contract Quality Requirements No subsections found.
52.247-14 Contractor Responsibility for Receipt of Shipment. No subsections found.
47.202 Presolicitation planning. (a) (a) The Service Contract Labor Standards statute requirement to obtain a wage determination by accessing the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website (https://www.sam.gov) using the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov process or by submitting a request directly to the Department of Labor on this website using the e98 process before the issuance of an invitation for bid, request for proposal, or commencement of negotiations for any contract exceeding $2,500 that may be subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute (see subpart  22.10); (b) (b) The possible requirement to provide, during the solicitation period, time for prospective offerors or contractors to inspect origin and destination locations; or (c) (c) The possible requirement for inspection by agency personnel of prospective contractor facilities and equipment.
31.205-42 Termination costs. (a) (a) Common items. The costs of items reasonably usable on the contractor’s other work shall not be allowable unless the contractor submits evidence that the items could not be retained at cost without sustaining a loss. The contracting officer should consider the contractor’s plans and orders for current and planned production when determining if items can reasonably be used on other work of the contractor. Contemporaneous purchases of common items by the contractor shall be regarded as evidence that such items are reasonably usable on the contractor’s other work. Any acceptance of common items as allocable to the terminated portion of the contract should be limited to the extent that the quantities of such items on hand, in transit, and on order are in excess of the reasonable quantitative requirements of other work. (b) (b) Costs continuing after termination. Despite all reasonable efforts by the contractor, costs which cannot be discontinued immediately after the effective date of termination are generally allowable. However, any costs continuing after the effective date of the termination due to the negligent or willful failure of the contractor to discontinue the costs shall be unallowable. (c) (c) Initial costs. Initial costs, including starting load and preparatory costs, are allowable as follows: (d) (d) Loss of useful value. Loss of useful value of special tooling, and special machinery and equipment is generally allowable, provided- (e) (e) Rental under unexpired leases. Rental costs under unexpired leases, less the residual value of such leases, are generally allowable when shown to have been reasonably necessary for the performance of the terminated contract, if- (f) (f) Alterations of leased property. The cost of alterations and reasonable restorations required by the lease may be allowed when the alterations were necessary for performing the contract. (g) (g) Settlement expenses. (h) (h) Subcontractor claims. Subcontractor claims, including the allocable portion of the claims common to the contract and to other work of the contractor, are generally allowable. An appropriate share of the contractor’s indirect expense may be allocated to the amount of settlements with subcontractors; provided, that the amount allocated is reasonably proportionate to the relative benefits received and is otherwise consistent with 31.201-4 and 31.203(d). The indirect expense so allocated shall exclude the same and similar costs claimed directly or indirectly as settlement expenses.
22.1900 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
47.303-8 F.a.s. vessel, port of shipment. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.a.s. vessel, port of shipment" means free of expense to the Government delivered alongside the ocean vessel and within reach of its loading tackle at the specified port of shipment. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-36, F.a.s. Vessel, Port of Shipment, when the delivery term is f.a.s. vessel, port of shipment.
14.203-2 Dissemination of information concerning invitations for bids. No subsections found.
16.202 Firm-fixed-price contracts. No subsections found.
3.907-5 Access to investigative file of Inspector General. (a) (a) The employee alleging reprisal under this section shall have access to the investigation file of the Inspector General, in accordance with the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. §552a. The investigation of the Inspector General shall be deemed closed for the purposes of disclosure under such section when an employee files an appeal to the agency head or a court of competent jurisdiction. (b) (b) In the event the employee alleging reprisal brings a civil action under section 1553(c)(3) of the Recovery Act, the employee alleging the reprisal and the non-Federal employer shall have access to the investigative file of the Inspector General in accordance with the Privacy Act. (c) (c) The Inspector General may exclude from disclosures made under 3.907-5(a) or (b)- (d) (d) An Inspector General investigating an alleged reprisal under this section may not respond to any inquiry or disclose any information from or about any person alleging such reprisal, except in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a or as required by any other applicable Federal law.
17.502-1 General. (a) (a)  Written agreement on responsibility for management and administration—. (b) (b) Business-case analysis requirements for multi-agency contracts and governmentwide acquisition contracts. In order to establish a multi-agency or governmentwide acquisition contract, a business-case analysis must be prepared by the servicing agency and approved in accordance with the OFPP business case guidance, available at https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/legacy_drupal_files/omb/procurement/memo/development-review-and-approval-of-business-cases-for-certain-interagency-and-agency-specific-acquisitions-memo.pdf . The business-case analysis shall—
33.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
52.215 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.245-9 Use and Charges. (a) (a) Definitions. Definitions applicable to this contract are provided in the clause at 52.245-1, Government Property. Additional definitions as used in this clause include: (b) (b) Use of Government property. The Contractor may use the Government property without charge in the performance of- (c) (c) Rental. If granted written permission by the Contracting Officer, or if it is specifically provided for in the Schedule, the Contractor may use the Government property (except material) for a rental fee for work other than that provided in paragraph (b) of this clause. Authorizing such use of the Government property does not waive any rights of the Government to terminate the Contractor’s right to use the Government property. The rental fee shall be determined in accordance with the following paragraphs. (d) (d) General. (e) (e) Rental charge.- (f) (f) Rental payments. (g) (g) Use revocation. At any time during the rental period, the Government may revoke nongovernmental use authorization and require the Contractor, at the Contractor’s expense, to return the property to the Government, restore the property to its prerental condition (less normal wear and tear), or both. (h) (h) Unauthorized use. The unauthorized use of Government property can subject a person to fines, imprisonment, or both, under 18 U.S.C. 641.
4.2302 Sharing supply chain risk information. (a) (a) Executive agencies are required to share relevant supply chain risk information with the FASC if the executive agency has determined there is a reasonable basis to conclude a substantial supply chain risk associated with a source or covered article exists (see 41 CFR 201–1.201). (b) (b) In support of information sharing described in paragraph (a) of this section, the contracting officer shall work with the program office or requiring activity in accordance with agency procedures regarding the sharing of relevant information on actual or potential supply chain risk determined to exist during the procurement process.
Subpart 13.4 - Fast Payment Procedure No subsections found.
42.703-2 Certificate of indirect costs. (a) (a) General. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3747 and 41 U.S.C.4307, a proposal shall not be accepted and no agreement shall be made to establish final indirect cost rates unless the costs have been certified by the contractor. (b) (b) Waiver of certification. (c) (c) Failure to certify. (d) (d) False certification. The contracting officer should consult with legal counsel to determine appropriate action when a contractor’s certificate of final indirect costs is thought to be false. (e) (e) Penalties for unallowable costs. 10 U.S.C. 3743 and 41 U.S.C.4303 prescribe penalties for submission of unallowable costs in final indirect cost rate proposals (see 42.709 for penalties and contracting officer responsibilities). (f) (f) Contract clause.
11.503 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Use the clause at 52.211-11, Liquidated Damages-Supplies, Services, or Research and Development, in fixed-price solicitations and contracts for supplies, services, or research and development when the contracting officer determines that liquidated damages are appropriate (see 11.501(a)). (b) (b) Use the clause at 52.211-12, Liquidated Damages-Construction, in solicitations and contracts for construction, other than cost-plus-fixed-fee, when the contracting officer determines that liquidated damages are appropriate (see 11.501(a)). If the contract specifies more than one completion date for separate parts or stages of the work, revise paragraph (a) of the clause to state the amount of liquidated damages for delay of each separate part or stage of the work. (c) (c) Use the clause at 52.211-13, Time Extensions, in solicitations and contracts for construction that use the clause at 52.211-12, Liquidated Damages-Construction, when that clause has been revised as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
52.230-2 Cost Accounting Standards. (a) (a) Unless the contract is exempt under 48 CFR 9903.201-1 and 9903.201-2, the provisions of 48 CFR Part 9903 are incorporated herein by reference and the Contractor, in connection with this contract, shall- (b) (b) If the parties fail to agree whether the Contractor or a subcontractor has complied with an applicable CAS in 48 CFR 9904 or a CAS rule or regulation in 48 CFR 9903 and as to any cost adjustment demanded by the United States, such failure to agree will constitute a dispute under 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, Contract Disputes. (c) (c) The Contractor shall permit any authorized representatives of the Government to examine and make copies of any documents, papers, or records relating to compliance with the requirements of this clause. (d) (d) The Contractor shall include in all negotiated subcontracts which the Contractor enters into, the substance of this clause, except paragraph (b), and shall require such inclusion in all other subcontracts, of any tier, including the obligation to comply with all CAS in effect on the subcontractor’s award date or if the subcontractor has submitted certified cost or pricing data, on the date of final agreement on price as shown on the subcontractor’s signed Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data. If the subcontract is awarded to a business unit which pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.201-2 is subject to other types of CAS coverage, the substance of the applicable clause set forth in subsection 30.201-4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) shall be inserted. This requirement shall apply only to negotiated subcontracts in excess of the lower CAS threshold specified in FAR 30.201-4(b) on the date of subcontract award, except that the requirement shall not apply to negotiated subcontracts otherwise exempt from the requirement to include a CAS clause as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1.
16.301-3 Limitations. (a) (a) A cost-reimbursement contract may be used only when (b) (b) The use of cost-reimbursement contracts is prohibited for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services (see parts  2 and 12).
19.505 Limitations on subcontracting and nonmanufacturer rule. (a) (a) Applicability. (b) (b) (c) (c) Nonmanufacturer rule. The nonmanufacturer rule applies to nonmanufacturers in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section and to kit assemblers who are nonmanufacturers in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
42.1202 Responsibility for executing agreements. (a) (a) If any of the affected contracts held by the transferor have been assigned to an administrative contracting officer (ACO) (see 2.1 and 42.202), the responsible contracting officer shall be- (b) (b) If none of the affected contracts held by the transferor have been assigned to an ACO, the contracting officer responsible for the largest unsettled (unbilled plus billed but unpaid) dollar balance of contracts shall be the responsible contracting officer. (c) (c) If several transferors are involved, the responsible contracting officer shall be-
12.213 Other commercial practices. No subsections found.
26.501 Applicability. (a) (a) At or below the simplified acquisition threshold; however, the requirements of this subpart apply to all contracts of any value awarded to an individual; (b) (b) For the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services (see part  12); (c) (c) Performed outside the United States and its outlying areas or any part of a contract performed outside the United States and its outlying areas; (d) (d) By law enforcement agencies, if the head of the law enforcement agency or designee involved determines that application of this subpart would be inappropriate in connection with the law enforcement agency’s undercover operations; or (e) (e) Where application would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or with the laws and regulations of a foreign country.
30.202-5 Filing Disclosure Statements. No subsections found.
52.203-4 [Reserved] No subsections found.
4.404 Contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-2, Security Requirements, in solicitations and contracts when the contract may require access to classified information, unless the conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section apply. (b) (b) If a cost contract (see 16.302) for research and development with an educational institution is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I. (c) (c) If a construction or architect-engineer contract where employee identification is required for security reasons is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate II. (d) (d) If the contracting agency is not covered by the NISP and has prescribed a clause and alternates that are substantially the same as those at 52.204-2, the contracting officer shall use the agency-prescribed clause as required by agency procedures.
4.1004 Establishing subline items. (a) (a) Deliverable subline items. Deliverable subline items may be used for several related items that require separate identification. For example, instead of establishing multiple separate line items, subline items may be established for- (b) (b) Informational subline items.
52.249-13 [Reserved] No subsections found.
9.406-4 Period of debarment. (a) (a) (b) (b) The suspending and debarring official may extend the debarment for an additional period, if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the Government’s interest. However, a debarment may not be extended solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based. Debarments under 9.406-2(b)(2) may be extended for additional periods of one year if the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General determines that the contractor continues to be in violation of the employment provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act. If debarment for an additional period is determined to be necessary, the procedures of 9.406-3 shall be followed to extend the debarment. (c) (c) The suspending and debarring official may reduce the period or extent of debarment, upon the contractor’s request, supported by documentation, for reasons such as-
17.605 Award, renewal, and extension. (a) (a) Effective work performance under management and operating contracts usually involves high levels of expertise and continuity of operations and personnel. Because of program requirements and the unusual (sometimes unique) nature of the work performed under management and operating contracts, the Government is often limited in its ability to effect competition or to replace a contractor. Therefore contracting officers should take extraordinary steps before award to assure themselves that the prospective contractor’s technical and managerial capacity are sufficient, that organizational conflicts of interest are adequately covered, and that the contract will grant the Government broad and continuing rights to involve itself, if necessary, in technical and managerial decisionmaking concerning performance. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall review each management and operating contract, following agency procedures, at appropriate intervals and at least once every 5 years. The review should determine whether meaningful improvement in performance or cost might reasonably be achieved. Any extension or renewal of an operating and management contract must be authorized at a level within the agency no lower than the level at which the original contract was authorized in accordance with 17.602(a). (c) (c) Replacement of an incumbent contractor is usually based largely upon expectation of meaningful improvement in performance or cost. Therefore, when reviewing contractor performance, contracting officers should consider-
6.205 Set-asides for HUBZone small business concerns. (a) (a) To fulfill the statutory requirements relating to the HUBZone Act of 1997 (15 U.S.C. 631 note), contracting officers may set aside solicitations to allow only HUBZone small business concerns to compete (see 19.1305). (b) (b) No separate justification or determination and findings is required under this part to set aside a contract action for HUBZone small business concerns.
42.302 Contract administration functions. (a) (a) The contracting officer normally delegates the following contract administration functions to a CAO. The contracting officer may retain any of these functions, except those in paragraphs (a)(5), (a)(9), (a)(11) and (a)(12) of this section, unless the cognizant Federal agency (see 2.101) has designated the contracting officer to perform these functions. (b) (b) The CAO shall perform the following functions only when and to the extent specifically authorized by the contracting office: (c) (c) Any additional contract administration functions not listed in 42.302(a) and (b), or not otherwise delegated, remain the responsibility of the contracting office.
22.1304 Procedures. (a) (a) Query the Department of Labor’s VETS-4212 Database via the Internet at http://www.dol.gov/vets/vets4212.htm under "Filing Verification" and (b) (b) Contact the VETS-4212 customer support via e-mail at VETS4212-customersupport@dol.gov for confirmation, if the proposed contractor represents that it has submitted the VETS-4212 Report and is not listed on the verification file.
3.901 Definitions. No subsections found.
50.102 Delegation of and limitations on exercise of authority. No subsections found.
27.202-1 Reporting of royalties. (a) (a) To determine whether royalties anticipated or actually paid under Government contracts are excessive, improper, or inconsistent with Government patent rights the solicitation provision at 52.227-6 requires prospective contractors to furnish royalty information. The contracting officer shall take appropriate action to reduce or eliminate excessive or improper royalties. (b) (b) If the response to a solicitation includes a charge for royalties, the contracting officer shall, before award of the contract, forward the information to the office having cognizance of patent matters for the contracting activity. The cognizant office shall promptly advise the contracting officer of appropriate action. (c) (c) The contracting officer, when considering the approval of a subcontract, shall require royalty information if it is required under the prime contract. The contracting officer shall forward the information to the office having cognizance of patent matters. However, the contracting officer need not delay consent while awaiting advice from the cognizant office. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall forward any royalty reports to the office having cognizance of patent matters for the contracting activity.
47.303-13 C. & f. destination. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."C.&f. (cost & freight) destination" means free of expense to the Government delivered on board the ocean vessel to the specified point of destination, with the cost of transportation paid by the contractor. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-41, C.&f. Destination, when the delivery term is c.&f. (Cost & freight) destination.
52.216-16 Incentive Price Revision-Firm Target. (a) (a) General. The supplies or services identified in the Schedule as Items _______ [Contracting Officer insert Schedule line item numbers] are subject to price revision in accordance with this clause; provided, that in no event shall the total final price of these items exceed the ceiling price of ________ dollars ($_____). Any supplies or services that are to be (1) ordered separately under, or otherwise added to, this (b) (b) Definition. "Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance with part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract. (c) (c) Data submission. (d) (d) Price revision. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the data required by paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor shall promptly establish the total final price of the items specified in (a) of this clause by applying to final negotiated cost an adjustment for profit or loss, as follows: (e) (e) Contract modification. The total final price of the items specified in paragraph (a) of this clause shall be evidenced by a modification to this contract, signed by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer. This price shall not be subject to revision, notwithstanding any changes in the cost of performing the contract, except to the extent that- (f) (f) Adjusting billing prices. (g) (g) Quarterly limitation on payments statement. This paragraph (g) shall apply until final price revision under this contract has been completed. (h) (h) Subcontracts. No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis. (i) (i) Disagreements. If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon the total final price within 60 days (or within such other period as the Contracting Officer may specify) after the date on which the data required by paragraph (c) of this clause are to be submitted, the Contracting Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance with the Disputes clause. (j) (j) Termination. If this contract is terminated before the total final price is established, prices of supplies or services subject to price revision shall be established in accordance with this clause for (1) completed supplies and services accepted by the Government and (2) those supplies and services not terminated under a partial termination. All other elements of the termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable clauses of this contract. (k) (k) Equitable adjustment under other clauses. If an equitable adjustment in the contract price is made under any other clause of this contract before the total final price is established, the adjustment shall be made in the total target cost and may be made in the maximum dollar limit on the total final price, the total target profit, or both. If the adjustment is made after the total final price is established, only the total final price shall be adjusted. (l) (l) Exclusion from target price and total final price. If any clause of this contract provides that the contract price does not or will not include an amount for a specific purpose, then neither any target price nor the total final price includes or will include any amount for that purpose. (m) (m) Separate reimbursement. If any clause of this contract expressly provides that the cost of performance of an obligation shall be at Government expense, that expense shall not be included in any target price or in the total final price, but shall be reimbursed separately. (n) (n) Taxes. As used in the Federal, State, and Local Taxes clause or in any other clause that provides for certain taxes or duties to be included in, or excluded from, the contract price, the term "contract price" includes the total target price or, if it has been established, the total final price. When any of these clauses requires that the contract price be increased or decreased as a result of changes in the obligation of the Contractor to pay or bear the burden of certain taxes or duties, the increase or decrease shall be made in the total target price or, if it has been established, in the total final price, so that it will not affect the Contractor’s profit or loss on this contract.
32.407 Interest. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the contracting officer shall charge interest on the daily unliquidated balance of all advance payments at the higher of- (b) (b) The interest rate for advance payments shall be adjusted for changes in the prime rate of the depository and the semiannual determination by the Secretary of the Treasury under 50 U.S.C. App.1215(b)(2). The contracting officer shall obtain data from the depository on changes in the interest rate during the month. Interest shall be computed at the end of each month on the daily unliquidated balance of advance payments at the applicable daily interest rate. (c) (c) Interest shall be required on contracts that are for acquisition, at cost, of property for Government ownership, if the contracts are awarded in combination with, or in contemplation of, supply contracts or subcontracts. (d) (d) The agency head or designee may authorize advance payments without interest under the following types of contracts, if in the Government’s interest: (e) (e) If a contract provides for interest-free advance payments, the contracting officer may require the contractor to charge interest on advances or downpayments to subcontractors and credit the Government for the proceeds from the interest charges. Interest rates shall be determined as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The contracting officer need not require the contractor to charge interest on an advance to a subcontractor that is an institution of the kind described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (f) (f) The contracting officer	shall not allow interest charges, required by this 32.407, as reimbursable costs under cost-reimbursement	contracts, whether the interest charge was incurred by the prime contractor	or a subcontractor.
52.214-26 Audit and Records-Sealed	Bidding. (a) (a) As	used in this clause, "records" includes books, documents, accounting	procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and	regardless of whether such items are in written form, in the form	of computer data, or in any other form. (b) (b) Certified	cost or pricing data. If the Contractor has been required to	submit certified cost or pricing data in connection with the pricing	of any modification to this contract, the Contracting Officer, or	an authorized representative of the Contracting Officer, in order	to evaluate the accuracy, completeness, and currency of the certified	cost or pricing data, shall have the right to examine and audit	all of the Contractor’s records, including computations and projections,	related to- (c) (c) Comptroller	General. In the case of pricing any modification, the Comptroller	General of the United States, or an authorized representative, shall	have the same rights as specified in paragraph (b) of this clause	and also the right to interview any current employee regarding such	transactions. (d) (d) Availability.	The Contractor shall make available at its office at all reasonable	times the materials described in paragraph (b) of this clause, for	examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment	under this contract, or for any other period specified in subpart  4.7 of the	Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). FAR subpart  4.7, Contractor Records	Retention, in effect on the date of this contract, is incorporated	by reference in its entirety and made a part of this contract. (e) (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert	a clause containing all the provisions of this clause, including	this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts expected to exceed the threshold	for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1) on the	date of subcontract award.
50.205-2 Pre-qualification designation notice. (a) (a) Requiring activity responsibilities. (b) (b) Contracting officer responsibilities. Upon receipt of the documentation specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this subsection, the contracting officer shall-
13.302 Purchase orders. No subsections found.
15.606-1 Receipt and initial review. (a) (a) Before initiating a comprehensive evaluation, the agency contact point shall determine if the proposal- (b) (b) If the proposal meets these requirements, the contact point shall promptly acknowledge receipt and process the proposal. (c) (c) If a proposal is rejected because the proposal does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this subsection, the agency contact point shall promptly inform the offeror of the reasons for rejection in writing and of the proposed disposition of the unsolicited proposal.
52.223-9 Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) The Contractor, on completion of this contract, shall-
52.246-23 Limitation of Liability. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause, and except for remedies expressly provided elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall not be liable for loss of or damage to property of the Government (excluding the supplies delivered under this contract) that- (b) (b) The limitation of liability under paragraph (a) of this clause shall not apply when a defect or deficiency in, or the Government’s acceptance of, the supplies results from willful misconduct or lack of good faith on the part of any of the Contractor’s managerial personnel. The term "Contractor’s managerial personnel," as used in this clause, means the Contractor’s directors, officers, and any of the Contractor’s managers, superintendents, or equivalent representatives who have supervision or direction of- (c) (c) If the Contractor carries insurance, or has established a reserve for self-insurance, covering liability for loss or damage suffered by the Government through purchase or use of the supplies required to be delivered under this contract, the Contractor shall be liable to the Government, to the extent of such insurance or reserve, for loss of or damage to property of the Government occurring after Government acceptance of, and resulting from any defects or deficiencies in, the supplies delivered under this contract.
3.104-2 General. (a) (a) This section implements 41 U.S.C. chapter 21, Restrictions on Obtaining and Disclosing Certain Information. Agency supplementation of 3.104, including specific definitions to identify individuals who occupy positions specified in 3.104-3(d)(1)(ii), and any clauses required by 3.104 must be approved by the senior procurement executive of the agency, unless a law establishes a higher level of approval for that agency. (b) (b) Agency officials are reminded that there are other statutes and regulations that deal with the same or related prohibited conduct, for example-
32.1001 Policy. (a) (a) Performance-based payments are the preferred Government financing method when the contracting officer finds them practical, and the contractor agrees to their use. (b) (b) Performance-based payments are contract financing payments that are not payment for accepted items. (c) (c) Performance-based payments are fully recoverable, in the same manner as progress payments, in the event of default. (d) (d) Performance-based payments are contract financing payments and, therefore, are not subject to the interest-penalty provisions of prompt payment (see subpart  32.9). These payments shall be made in accordance with agency policy. (e) (e) Performance-based payments shall not be used for-
7.503 Policy. (a) (a) Contracts shall not be used for the performance of inherently governmental functions. (b) (b) Agency decisions which determine whether a function is or is not an inherently governmental function may be reviewed and modified by appropriate Office of Management and Budget officials. (c) (c) The following is a list of examples of functions considered to be inherently governmental functions or which shall be treated as such. This list is not all inclusive: (d) (d) The following is a list of examples of functions generally not considered to be inherently governmental functions. However, certain services and actions that are not considered to be inherently governmental functions may approach being in that category because of the nature of the function, the manner in which the contractor performs the contract, or the manner in which the Government administers contractor performance. This list is not all inclusive: (e) (e) Agency implementation shall include procedures requiring the agency head or designated requirements official to provide the contracting officer, concurrent with transmittal of the statement of work (or any modification thereof), a written determination that none of the functions to be performed are inherently governmental. This assessment should place emphasis on the degree to which conditions and facts restrict the discretionary authority, decision-making responsibility, or accountability of Government officials using contractor services or work products. Disagreements regarding the determination will be resolved in accordance with agency procedures before issuance of a solicitation.
16.103 Negotiating contract type. (a) (a) Selecting the contract type is generally a matter for negotiation and requires the exercise of sound judgment. Negotiating the contract type and negotiating prices are closely related and should be considered together. The objective is to negotiate a contract type and price (or estimated cost and fee) that will result in reasonable contractor risk and provide the contractor with the greatest incentive for efficient and economical performance. (b) (b) A firm-fixed-price contract, which best utilizes the basic profit motive of business enterprise, shall be used when the risk involved is minimal or can be predicted with an acceptable degree of certainty. However, when a reasonable basis for firm pricing does not exist, other contract types should be considered, and negotiations should be directed toward selecting a contract type (or combination of types) that will appropriately tie profit to contractor performance. (c) (c) In the course of an acquisition program, a series of contracts, or a single long-term contract, changing circumstances may make a different contract type appropriate in later periods than that used at the outset. In particular, contracting officers should avoid protracted use of a cost-reimbursement or time-and-materials contract after experience provides a basis for firmer pricing. (d) (d)
19.502-10 	Automatic	dissolution of a small business set-aside. (a) (a) If a small business set-aside	acquisition or portion of an acquisition is not awarded, the unilateral	or joint determination to set the acquisition aside is automatically	dissolved for the unawarded portion of the set-aside. The required	supplies and/or services for which no award was made may be acquired	by sealed bidding or negotiation, as appropriate. (b) (b) Before	issuing a solicitation for the items called for in a small business	set-aside that was dissolved, the contracting officer shall ensure	that the delivery schedule is realistic in the light of all relevant	factors, including the capabilities of small business concerns.
19.1407 [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.608-1 Interest charges. (a) (a) The contract is a kind excluded under 32.611; or (b) (b) The contract or debt has been exempted from interest charges under agency procedures.
52.246-8 Inspection of Research and Development-Cost-Reimbursement. (a) (a) Definitions.As used in this clause— (b) (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the work under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all work called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect the plant or plants of the Contractor or its subcontractors engaged in the contract performance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) (d) If the Government performs any inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (e) (e) Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the Government shall accept work as promptly as practicable after delivery, and work shall be deemed accepted 90 days after delivery, unless accepted earlier. (f) (f) At any time during contract performance, but no later than 6 months (or such other time as may be specified in the contract) after acceptance of all of the end items (other than designs, drawings, or reports) to be delivered under the contract, the Government may require the Contractor to replace or correct work not meeting contract requirements. Time devoted to the replacement or correction of such work shall not be included in the computation of the above time period. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h) of this clause, the cost of replacement or correction shall be determined as specified in the Allowable Cost and Payment clause, but no additional fee shall be paid. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance work required to be replaced or corrected without disclosing the former requirement for replacement or correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken. (g) (g) (h) (h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this clause, the Government may at any time require the Contractor to remedy by correction or replacement, without cost to the Government, any failure by the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this contract, if the failure is due to— (i) (i) This clause shall apply in the same manner to a corrected or replacement end item or components as to work originally delivered. (j) (j) The Contractor has no obligation or liability under the contract to correct or replace articles not meeting contract requirements at time of delivery, except as provided in this clause or as may otherwise be specified in the contract. (k) (k) Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the Contractor’s obligations to correct or replace Government-furnished property shall be governed by the clause pertaining to Government property.
47.104-1 Government rate tender procedures. (a) (a) 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates are published in Government rate tenders and apply to shipments moving for the account of the Government on- (b) (b) Agencies may negotiate with carriers for additional or revised 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates in appropriate situations. Only personnel authorized in agency procedures may carry out these negotiations. The following are examples of situations in which negotiations for additional or revised 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates may be appropriate:
47.103 Transportation Payment and Audit Regulation. No subsections found.
12.404 Warranties. (a) (a) Implied warranties. The Government’s post award rights contained in 52.212-4 are the implied warranty of merchantability, the implied warranty of fitness for particular purpose and the remedies contained in the acceptance paragraph. (b) (b) Express warranties. 41 U.S.C. 3307(e)(5)(B) requires contracting officers to take advantage of commercial warranties. To the maximum extent practicable, solicitations for commercial products shall require offerors to offer the Government at least the same warranty terms, including offers of extended warranties, offered to the general public in customary commercial practice. Solicitations may specify minimum warranty terms, such as minimum duration, appropriate for the Government’s intended use of the item.
32.706-2 Clauses for limitation of cost or funds. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.232-20, Limitation of Cost, in solicitations and contracts if a fully funded cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated, whether or not the contract provides for payment of a fee. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.232-22, Limitation of Funds, in solicitations and contracts if an incrementally funded cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated.
25.406 Israeli Trade Act. No subsections found.
8.712 Specification changes. (a) (a) The contracting activity shall notify the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency and appropriate central nonprofit agency of any change in specifications or descriptions. In the absence of such written notification, the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency shall furnish the supplies or services under the specification or description cited in the order. (b) (b) The contracting activity shall provide 90-days advance notification to the Committee and the central nonprofit agency on actions that affect supplies on the Procurement List and shall permit them to comment before action is taken, particularly when it involves- (c) (c) For services, the contracting activity shall notify the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency and central nonprofit agency concerned at least 90 days prior to the date that any changes in the scope of work or other conditions will be required. (d) (d) When, in order to meet its emergency needs, a contracting activity is unable to give the 90-day notification required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the contracting activity shall, at the time it places the order or change notice, inform the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency and the central nonprofit agency in writing of the reasons that it cannot meet the 90-day notification requirement.
52.208-8 [Reserved] No subsections found.
31.205-38 Selling costs. (a) (a) "Selling" is a generic term encompassing all efforts to market the contractor’s products or services, some of which are covered specifically in other subsections of 31.205. The costs of any selling efforts other than those addressed in this cost principle are unallowable. (b) (b) Selling activity includes the following broad categories: (c) (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, sellers’ or agents’ compensation, fees, commissions, percentages, retainer or brokerage fees, whether or not contingent upon the award of contracts, are allowable only when paid to bona fide employees or established commercial or selling agencies maintained by the contractor for the purpose of securing business.
52.252 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.203 Emergency declaration or major disaster declaration. (a) (a) Disaster or emergency assistance activities. Preference will be given to local organizations, firms, and individuals when contracting for major disaster or emergency assistance activities when the President has made a declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. Preference may take the form of local area set-asides or an evaluation preference. (See 6.208 and subpart  26.2.) (b) (b) Ocean transportation by U.S. flag vessels. The provisions of the Cargo Preference Act of 1954 may be waived in emergency situations. (See 47.502(c).)
9.104-5 Representation and certifications regarding responsibility matters. (a) (a) When an offeror provides an affirmative response in paragraph (a)(1) of the provision at 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters, or paragraph (h) of provision 52.212-3, the contracting officer shall- (b) (b) The provision at 52.209-11, Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law, implements sections 744 and 745 of Division E of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) (and similar provisions in subsequent appropriations acts). When an offeror provides an affirmative response in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of the provision at 52.209-11 or paragraph (q)(2)(i) or (ii) of provision 52.212-3, the contracting officer shall– (c) (c) If the provision at 52.209-12, Certification Regarding Tax Matters, is applicable (see 9.104-7(e)), then the contracting officer shall not award any contract in an amount greater than $5.5 million, unless the offeror affirmatively certified in its offer, as required by paragraph (b)(1), (2), and (3) of the provision. (d) (d) Offerors who do not furnish the representation or certifications or such information as may be requested by the contracting officer shall be given an opportunity to remedy the deficiency. Failure to furnish the representation or certifications or such information may render the offeror nonresponsible.
9.603 Policy. No subsections found.
1.102-4 Acquisition Team. No subsections found.
4.1901 Definitions. No subsections found.
35.007 Solicitations. (a) (a) The submission and subsequent evaluation of an inordinate number of R&D proposals from sources lacking appropriate qualifications is costly and time-consuming to both industry and the Government. Therefore, contracting officers should initially distribute solicitations only to sources technically qualified to perform research or development in the specific field of science or technology involved. Cognizant technical personnel should recommend potential sources that appear qualified, as a result of- (b) (b) Proposals generally shall be solicited from technically qualified sources, including sources that become known as a result of synopses or other means of publicizing requirements. If it is not practicable to initially solicit all apparently qualified sources, only a reasonable number need be solicited. In the interest of competition, contracting officers shall furnish copies of the solicitation to other apparently qualified sources. (c) (c) Solicitations shall require offerors to describe their technical and management approach, identify technical uncertainties, and make specific proposals for the resolution of any uncertainties. The solicitation should require offerors to include in the proposal any planned subcontracting of scientific or technical work (see 35.009). (d) (d) Solicitations may require that proposals be organized so that the technical portions can be efficiently evaluated by technical personnel (see 15.204-5(b)). Solicitation and evaluation of proposals should be planned to minimize offerors’ and Government expense. (e) (e) R&D solicitations should contain evaluation factors to be used to determine the most technically competent (see 15.304), such as- (f) (f) In addition to evaluation factors for technical competence, the contracting officer shall consider, as appropriate, management capability (including cost management techniques), experience and past performance, subcontracting practices, and any other significant evaluation criteria (e.g., unrealistically low cost estimates in proposals for cost-reimbursement or fixed-price incentive contracts). Although cost or price is not normally the controlling factor in selecting a contractor to perform R&D, it should not be disregarded in arriving at a selection that best satisfies the Government’s requirement at a fair and reasonable cost. (g) (g) The contracting officer should ensure that potential offerors fully understand the details of the work, especially the Government interpretation of the work statement. If the effort is complex, the contracting officer should provide potential offerors an opportunity to comment on the details of the requirements as contained in the work statement, the contract Schedule, and any related specifications. This may be done at a preproposal conference (see 15.201). (h) (h) If it is appropriate to do so, solicitations should permit offerors to propose an alternative contract type (see 16.103). (i) (i) In circumstances when a concern has a new idea or product to discuss that incorporates the results of independent R&D work funded by the concern in the private sector and is of interest to the Government, there should be no hesitancy to discuss it; however, the concern should be warned that the Government will not be obligated by the discussion. Under such circumstances, it may be appropriate to negotiate directly with the concern without competition. Also, see subpart  15.6 concerning unsolicited proposals. (j) (j) The Government may issue an exploratory request to determine the existence of ideas or prior work in a specific field of research. Any such request shall clearly state that it does not impose any obligation on the Government or signify a firm intention to enter into a contract.
53.231 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 45.3 - Authorizing the Use and Rental of Government Property No subsections found.
52.227-13 Patent Rights-Ownership by the Government. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Ownership. (c) (c) Minimum rights acquired by the Government. (d) (d) Minimum rights to the Contractor. (e) (e) Invention identification, disclosures, and reports. (f) (f) Examination of records relating to inventions. (g) (g) Withholding of payment. (This paragraph does not apply to subcontracts.) (h) (h) Preference for United States industry. Unless provided otherwise, neither the Contractor nor any assignee shall grant to any person the exclusive right to use or sell any subject invention in the United States unless the person agrees that any products embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. However, in individual cases, the requirement may be waived by the agency upon a showing by the Contractor or assignee that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that would be likely to manufacture substantially in the United States or that, under the circumstances, domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible. (i) (i) Subcontracts.
52.244-1 [Reserved] No subsections found.
41.205 Separate contracts. (a) (a) In the absence of an areawide contract or interagency agreement (see 41.206), agencies shall acquire utility services by separate contract subject to this part, and subject to agency contracting authority. (b) (b) If an agency enters into a separate contract, the contracting officer shall document the contract file with the following information: (c) (c) If requesting GSA	assistance with a separate contract, the requesting agency shall furnish the	technical and acquisition data specified in 41.205(b), 41.301, and	such other data as GSA may deem necessary. (d) (d) A contract exceeding a 1-year period, but not exceeding tenyears (except pursuant to 41.103), may be justified, and is usually required, where any of the following circumstances exist:
16.603-2 Application. (a) (a) A letter contract may be used when (1) the Government’s interests demand that the contractor be given a binding commitment so that work can start immediately and (2) negotiating a definitive contract is not possible in sufficient time to meet the requirement. However, a letter contract should be as complete and definite as feasible under the circumstances. (b) (b) When a letter contract award is based on price competition, the contracting officer shall include an overall price ceiling in the letter contract. (c) (c) Each letter contract shall, as required by the clause at 52.216-25, Contract Definitization, contain a negotiated definitization schedule including (1) dates for submission of the contractor's price proposal, required certified cost or pricing data and data other than certified cost or pricing data; and, if required, make-or-buy and subcontracting plans, (2) a date for the start of negotiations, and (3) a target date for definitization, which shall be the earliest practicable date for definitization. The schedule will provide for definitization of the contract within 180 days after the date of the letter contract or before completion of 40 percent of the work to be performed, whichever occurs first. However, the contracting officer may, in extreme cases and according to agency procedures, authorize an additional period. If, after exhausting all reasonable efforts, the contracting officer and the contractor cannot negotiate a definitive contract because of failure to reach agreement as to price or fee, the clause at 52.216-25 requires the contractor to proceed with the work and provides that the contracting officer may, with the approval of the head of the contracting activity, determine a reasonable price or fee in accordance with subpart  15.4 and part  31, subject to appeal as provided in the Disputes clause. (d) (d) The maximum liability of the Government inserted in the clause at 52.216-24, Limitation of Government Liability, shall be the estimated amount necessary to cover the contractor’s requirements for funds before definitization. However, it shall not exceed 50 percent of the estimated cost of the definitive contract unless approved in advance by the official that authorized the letter contract. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall assign a priority rating to the letter contract if it is appropriate under 11.604.
5.302 Preparation and transmittal of synopses of awards. No subsections found.
52.225-23 Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Construction materials. (c) (c) Request for determination of inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute. (d) (d) Data. To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey of suppliers:
8.800 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
8.405-1 Ordering procedures for supplies, and services not requiring a statement of work. (a) (a) Ordering activities shall use the procedures of this subsection when ordering supplies and services that are listed in the schedules contracts at a fixed price for the performance of a specific task, where a statement of work is not required (e.g., installation, maintenance, and repair). For establishing BPAs and for orders under BPAs see 8.405-3. (b) (b) Orders at or below the micro-purchase threshold. Ordering activities may place orders at, or below, the micro-purchase threshold with any Federal Supply Schedule contractor that can meet the agency’s needs. Although not required to solicit from a specific number of schedule contractors, ordering activities should attempt to distribute orders among contractors. (c) (c) Orders exceeding the micro-purchase threshold but not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold. Ordering activities shall place orders with the schedule contractor that can provide the supply or service that represents the best value. Before placing an order, an ordering activity shall: (d) (d) For proposed orders exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold. (e) (e) When an order contains brand-name specifications, the contracting officer shall post the RFQ on eBuy along with the justification or documentation, as required by 8.405-6. An RFQ is required when a purchase description specifies a brand-name. (f) (f) In addition to price (see 8.404 (d) and 8.405-4), when determining best value, the ordering activity may consider, among other factors, the following: (g) (g) Minimum documentation. The ordering activity shall document-
49.203 Adjustment for loss. (a) (a) In the negotiation or determination of any settlement, the TCO shall not allow profit if it appears that the contractor would have incurred a loss had the entire contract been completed. The TCO shall negotiate or determine the amount of loss and make an adjustment in the amount of settlement as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. In estimating the cost to complete, the TCO shall consider expected production efficiencies and other factors affecting the cost to complete. (b) (b) If the settlement is on an inventory basis (see 49.206-2(a)), the contractor shall not be paid more than the total of the amounts in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, less all disposal credits and all unliquidated advance and progress payments previously made under the contract: (c) (c) If the settlement is on a total cost basis (see 49.206-2(b)), the contractor shall not be paid more than the total of the amounts in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, less all disposal and other credits, all advance and progress payments, and all other amounts previously paid under the contract:
52.228-5 Insurance-Work on a Government Installation. (a) (a) The Contractor shall, at its own expense, provide and maintain during the entire performance of this contract, at least the kinds and minimum amounts of insurance required in the Schedule or elsewhere in the contract. (b) (b) Before commencing work under this contract, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing that the required insurance has been obtained. The policies evidencing required insurance shall contain an endorsement to the effect that any cancellation or any material change adversely affecting the Government’s interest shall not be effective- (c) (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in subcontracts under this contract that require work on a Government installation and shall require subcontractors to provide and maintain the insurance required in the Schedule or elsewhere in the contract. The Contractor shall maintain a copy of all subcontractors’ proofs of required insurance, and shall make copies available to the Contracting Officer upon request.
Subpart 3.3 - Reports of Suspected Antitrust Violations No subsections found.
52.247-53 Freight Classification Description. No subsections found.
36.523 Site visit. No subsections found.
52.219-26 [Reserved] No subsections found.
31.205-21 Labor relations costs. (a) (a) Costs incurred in maintaining satisfactory relations between the contractor and its employees (other than those made unallowable in paragraph (b) of this section), including costs of shop stewards, labor management committees, employee publications, and other related activities, are allowable. (b) (b) As required by Executive Order 13494, Economy in Government Contracting, costs of any activities undertaken to persuade employees, of any entity, to exercise or not to exercise, or concerning the manner of exercising, the right to organize and bargain collectively through representatives of the employees’ own choosing are unallowable. Examples of unallowable costs under this paragraph include, but are not limited to, the costs of-
36.507 Permits and responsibilities. No subsections found.
28.103-3 Payment bonds. (a) (a) A payment bond is required only when a performance bond is required, and if the use of payment bond is in the Government’s interest. (b) (b) When a contract price is increased, the Government may require additional bond protection in an amount adequate to protect suppliers of labor and material.
36.602-3 Evaluation board functions. (a) (a) Review the current data files on eligible firms and responses to a public notice concerning the particular project (see 36.603). (b) (b) Evaluate the firms in accordance with the criteria in 36.602-1. (c) (c) Hold discussions with at least three of the most highly qualified firms regarding concepts and the relative utility of alternative methods of furnishing the required services. (d) (d) Prepare a selection report for the agency head or other designated selection authority recommending, in order of preference, at least three firms that are considered to be the most highly qualified to perform the required services. The report shall include a description of the discussions and evaluation conducted by the board to allow the selection authority to review the considerations upon which the recommendations are based.
46.202 Types of contract quality requirements. No subsections found.
32.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Payment methods, including partial payments and progress payments based on percentage or stage of completion; (b) (b) Loan guarantees, advance payments, and progress payments based on costs; (c) (c) Administration of debts to the Government arising out of contracts; (d) (d) Contract funding, including the use of contract clauses limiting costs or funds; (e) (e) Assignment of claims to aid in private financing; (f) (f) Selected payment clauses; (g) (g) Financing of purchases of commercial products and commercial services; (h) (h) Performance-based payments; and (i) (i) Electronic funds transfer payments.
53.215 Contracting by negotiation. No subsections found.
52.214-8 [Reserved] No subsections found.
17.202 Use of options. (a) (a) Subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, for both sealed bidding and contracting by negotiation, the contracting officer may include options in contracts when it is in the Government’s interest. When using sealed bidding, the contracting officer shall make a written determination that there is a reasonable likelihood that the options will be exercised before including the provision at 52.217-5, Evaluation of Options, in the solicitation. (See 17.207(f) with regard to the exercise of options.) (b) (b) Inclusion of an option is normally not in the Government’s interest when, in the judgment of the contracting officer- (c) (c) The contracting officer shall not employ options if- (d) (d) In recognition of-
22.608 Procedures. (a) (a) Award. When a contract subject to the statute is awarded, the contracting officer, in accordance with regulations or instructions issued by the Secretary of Labor and individual agency procedures, shall furnish to the contractor DOL publication WH-1313, Notice to Employees Working on Government Contracts. (b) (b) Breach of stipulation. In the event of a violation of a stipulation required under the statute, the contracting officer shall, in accordance with agency procedures, notify the appropriate regional office of the DOL, Wage and Hour Division (see 29 CFR Part 1, Appendix B), and furnish any information available.
22.1703 Policy. (a) (a) Prohibit contractors, contractor employees, subcontractors, subcontractor employees, and their agents from- (b) (b) Require contractors and subcontractors to notify employees of the prohibited activities described in paragraph (a) of this section and the actions that may be taken against them for violations; (c) (c) With regard to certification and a compliance plan- (d) (d) Require the contractor and subcontractors to- (e) (e) Provide suitable remedies, including termination, to be imposed on contractors that fail to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
49.603-1 Fixed price contracts-complete termination. No subsections found.
42.705 Final indirect cost rates. (a) (a) Final indirect cost rates shall be established on the basis of- (b) (b) Within 120 days (or longer period, if approved in writing by the contracting officer,) after settlement of the final annual indirect cost rates for all years of a physically complete contract, the contractor must submit a completion invoice or voucher reflecting the settled amounts and rates. To determine whether a period longer than 120 days is appropriate, the contracting officer should consider whether there are extenuating circumstances, such as the following: (c) (c)
1.602-3 Ratification of unauthorized commitments. (a) (a) Definitions. (b) (b) Policy. (c) (c) Limitations. The authority in paragraph (b)(2) of this subsection may be exercised only when- (d) (d) Nonratifiable commitments. Cases that are not ratifiable under this subsection may be subject to resolution as recommended by the Government Accountability Office under its claim procedure (GAO Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies, Title 4, Chapter 2), or as authorized by FAR subpart  50.1. Legal advice should be obtained in these cases.
52.236-19 Organization and Direction of the Work. (a) (a) When this contract is executed, the Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a chart showing the general executive and administrative organization, the personnel to be employed in connection with the work under this contract, and their respective duties. The Contractor shall keep the data furnished current by supplementing it as additional information becomes available. (b) (b) Work performance under this contract shall be under the full-time resident direction of (1) the Contractor, if the Contractor is an individual; (2) one or more principal partners, if the Contractor is a partnership; or (3) one or more senior officers, if Contractor is a corporation, association, or similar legal entity. However, if the Contracting Officer approves, the Contractor may be represented in the direction of the work by a specific person or persons holding positions other than those identified in this paragraph.
6.302-1 Only one responsible source and no other supplies or services will satisfy agency requirements. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Application. This authority shall be used, if appropriate, in preference to the authority in 6.302-7; it shall not be used when any of the other circumstances is applicable. Use of this authority may be appropriate in situations such as the following (these examples are not intended to be all inclusive and do not constitute authority in and of themselves): (c) (c) Application for brand-name descriptions. (d) (d) Limitations.
30.601 Responsibility. (a) (a) The CFAO shall perform CAS administration for all contracts and subcontracts in a business unit, even when the contracting officer retains other administration functions. The CFAO shall make all CAS-related required determinations and findings (see subpart  1.7) for all CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts, including- (b) (b) Within 30 days after the award of any new contract subject to CAS, the contracting officer making the award shall request the CFAO to perform administration for CAS matters (see subpart  42.2). For subcontract awards, the contractor awarding the subcontract must follow the procedures at 52.230-6(l), (m), and (n). (c) (c) In performing CAS administration, the CFAO shall request and consider the advice of the auditor as appropriate (see 1.602-2).
52.216-1 Type of Contract. No subsections found.
22.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 48.1 - Policies and Procedures No subsections found.
22.103-4 Approvals. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall review the contractor’s request for overtime. Approval of the use of overtime may be granted by an agency approving official after determining in writing that overtime is necessary to- (b) (b) Approval by the designated official of use and total dollar amount of overtime is required before inclusion of an amount in paragraph (a) of the clause at 52.222-2, Payment for Overtime Premiums. (c) (c) Contracting officer approval of payment of overtime premiums is required for time-and-materials and labor-hour contracts (see paragraph (a)(8) of the clause at 52.232-7, Payments Under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts). (d) (d) No approvals are required for paying overtime premiums under other types of contracts. (e) (e) Approvals by the agency	approving official (see 22.103-4(a))	may be for an individual contract, project, program, plant, division, or	company, as practical. (f) (f) During contract performance, contractor requests for overtime exceeding the amount authorized by paragraph (a) of the clause at 52.222-2, Payment for Overtime Premiums, shall be submitted as stated in paragraph (b) of the clause to the office administering the contract. That office will review the request and if it approves, send the request to the contracting officer. If the contracting officer determines that the requested overtime should be approved in whole or in part, the contracting officer shall request the approval of the agency’s designated approving official and modify paragraph (a) of the clause to reflect any approval. (g) (g) Overtime premiums at Government expense should not be approved when the contractor is already obligated, without the right to additional compensation, to meet the required delivery date. (h) (h) When the use of overtime is authorized under a contract, the office administering the contract and the auditor should periodically review the use of overtime to ensure that it is allowable in accordance with the criteria in part  31. Only overtime premiums for work in those departments, sections, etc., of the contractor’s plant that have been individually evaluated and the necessity for overtime confirmed shall be considered for approval. (i) (i) Approvals for using overtime shall ordinarily be prospective, but, if justified by emergency circumstances, approvals may be retroactive.
32.006-5 Reporting. (a) (a) In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 4506(h), the head of an agency, other than the Department of Defense, shall prepare a report for each fiscal year in which a recommendation has been received pursuant to 32.006-4(a). Reports within the Department of Defense shall be prepared in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3806(h). (b) (b) In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 4506(h) and 10 U.S.C. 3806(h), each report shall contain-
15.403 Obtaining certified cost or pricing data. No subsections found.
52.207-3 Right of First Refusal of Employment. (a) (a) The Contractor shall give Government personnel who have been or will be adversely affected or separated as a result of award of this contract the right of first refusal for employment openings under the contract in positions for which they are qualified, if that employment is consistent with post-Government employment conflict of interest standards. (b) (b) Within 10 days after contract award, the Contracting Officer will provide to the Contractor a list of all Government personnel who have been or will be adversely affected or separated as a result of award of this contract. (c) (c) The Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer the names of individuals identified on the list who are hired within 90 days after contract performance begins. This report shall be forwarded within 120 days after contract performance begins.
48.102 Policies. (a) (a) As required by 41 U.S.C. 1711, agencies shall establish and maintain cost-effective value engineering procedures and processes. Agencies shall provide contractors a substantial financial incentive to develop and submit VECP’s. Contracting activities will include value engineering provisions in appropriate supply, service, architect-engineer and construction contracts as prescribed by 48.201 and 48.202 except where exemptions are granted on a case-by-case basis, or for specific classes of contracts, by the agency head. (b) (b) Agencies shall- (c) (c) Agencies shall consider requiring incorporation of value engineering clauses in appropriate subcontracts. (d) (d) (e) (e) Value engineering incentive payments do not constitute profit or fee within the limitations imposed by 10 U.S.C. 3322(b) and 41 U.S.C.3905 (see 15.404-4(c)(4)(i)). (f) (f) Generally, profit or fee on the instant contract should not be adjusted downward as a result of acceptance of a VECP. Profit or fee shall be excluded when calculating instant or future contract savings. (g) (g) The contracting officer determines the sharing periods and sharing rates on a case-by-case basis using the guidelines in 48.104-1 and 48.104-2, respectively. In establishing a sharing period and sharing rate, the contracting officer must consider the following, as appropriate, and must insert supporting rationale in the contract file: (h) (h) Contracts for architect-engineer services must require a mandatory value engineering program to reduce total ownership cost in accordance with 48.101(b)(2). However, there must be no sharing of value engineering savings in contracts for architect-engineer services. (i) (i) Agencies shall establish procedures for funding and payment of the contractor’s share of collateral savings and future contract savings.
4.1403 Contract clause. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards, in all solicitations and contracts of $30,000 or more. (b) (b) The clause is not prescribed for contracts that are not required to be reported in the Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS) (see subpart  4.6).
52.225-7 Waiver of Buy American Statute for Civil Aircraft and Related Articles. (a) (a) Definition. "Civil aircraft and related articles," as used in this provision, means- (b) (b) The U.S. Trade Representative has waived the Buy American statute for acquisitions of civil aircraft and related articles from countries that are parties to the Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft. Those countries are Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macao China, Malta, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan (Chinese Taipei), and the United Kingdom. (c) (c) For the purpose of this waiver, an article is a product of a country only if- (d) (d) The waiver is subject to modification or withdrawal by the U.S. Trade Representative.
53.228 Bonds and insurance. (a) (a) SF 24 (Rev. 8/2016) Bid Bond. (See 28.106-1.) (b) (b) SF 25 (Rev. 8/2016) Performance Bond. (See 28.106-1(b).) (c) (c) SF 25A (Rev. 8/2016) Payment Bond. (See 28.106-1(c).) (d) (d) SF 25B (For Standard Forms  24, 25, and 25A). (Rev.10/1983), Continuation Sheet Forms  24, 25, and 25A (See 28.106-1(c).) (e) (e) SF 28 (Rev. Feb 2021) Affidavit of Individual Surety. (See 28.106-1(e) and 28.203-1(b)(3).) (f) (f) SF 34 (Rev. 8/2016), Annual Bid Bond. (See 28.106-1(f).) (g) (g) SF 35 (Rev. 8/2016), Annual Performance Bond. (See 28.106-1.) (h) (h) SF 273 (Rev. 4/2013) Reinsurance Agreement for a Bond statute Performance Bond. (See 28.106-1(h) and 28.202(a)(4).) (i) (i) SF 274 (Rev. 4/2013) Reinsurance Agreement for a Bond statute Payment Bond. (See 28.106-1(i) and 28.202(a)(4).) (j) (j) SF 275 (Rev. 10/98) Reinsurance Agreement in Favor of the United States. (See 28.106-1(j) and 28.202(a)(4).) (k) (k) SF 1414 (Rev. 10/93), Consent of Surety. (l) (l) SF 1415 (Rev. 7/93), Consent of Surety and Increase of Penalty. (See 28.106-1(l).) (m) (m) SF 1416 (Rev. 10/98) Payment Bond for Other than Construction Contracts. (See 28.106-1(m).) (n) (n) SF 1418 (Rev. 2/99) Performance Bond For Other Than Construction Contracts. (See 28.106-1(n).) (o) (o) OF 91 (1/90Ed.), Release of Personal Property from Escrow. (See 28.106-1(o) and 28.203-3(a).)
Subpart 4.13 - Personal Identity Verification No subsections found.
Part 52 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses No subsections found.
52.249-3 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Dismantling, Demolition, or Removal of Improvements). (a) (a) The Government may terminate performance of work under this contract, in whole or, from time to time, in part if the Contracting Officer determines that a termination is in the Government’s interest. The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a Notice of Termination specifying the extent of termination and the effective date. Upon receipt of the notice, if title to property is vested in the Contractor under this contract, it shall revest in the Government regardless of any other clause of this contract, except for property that the Contractor disposed of by bona fide sale or removed from the site. (b) (b) After receipt of a Notice of Termination, and except as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall immediately proceed with the following obligations, regardless of delay in determining or adjusting any amounts due under this clause: (c) (c) The Contractor shall submit complete termination inventory schedules no later than 120 days from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 120-day period. (d) (d) After expiration of the plant clearance period as defined in Subpart 49.001 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Contractor may submit to the Contracting Officer a list, certified as to quantity and quality, of termination inventory not previously disposed of, excluding items authorized for disposition by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may request the Government to remove those items or enter into an agreement for their storage. Within 15 days, the Government will accept title to those items and remove them or enter into a storage agreement. The Contracting Officer may verify the list upon removal of the items, or if stored, within 45 days from submission of the list, and shall correct the list, as necessary, before final settlement. (e) (e) After termination, the Contractor shall submit a final termination settlement proposal to the Contracting Officer in the form and with the certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall submit the proposal promptly, but no later than 1 year from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 1-year period. However, if the Contracting Officer determines that the facts justify it, a termination settlement proposal may be received and acted on after 1 year or any extension. If the Contractor fails to submit the proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined. (f) (f) Subject to paragraph (e) of this clause, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer may agree upon the whole or any part of the amount to be paid because of the termination. The amount may include a reasonable allowance for profit on work done. However, the agreed amount, whether under this paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of this clause, exclusive of settlement costs, may not exceed the total contract price as reduced by (1) the amount of payments previously made and (2) the contract price of work not terminated. The contract shall be amended and the Contractor paid the agreed amount. Paragraph (g) of this clause shall not limit, restrict, or affect the amount that may be agreed upon to be paid under this paragraph. (g) (g) If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree on the whole amount to be paid because of the termination of work, the Contracting Officer shall pay the Contractor the amounts determined by the Contracting Officer as follows, but without duplication of any amounts agreed on under paragraph (f) of this clause: (h) (h) Except for normal spoilage, and except to the extent that the Government expressly assumed the risk of loss, the Contracting Officer shall exclude from the amounts payable to the Contractor under paragraph (g) of this clause, the fair value, as determined by the Contracting Officer, for the loss of the Government property. (i) (i) The cost principles and procedures of part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, in effect on the date of this contract, shall govern all costs claimed, agreed to, or determined under this clause. (j) (j) The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the Disputes clause, from any determination made by the Contracting Officer under paragraph (e), (g), or (l) of this clause, except that if the Contractor failed to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time provided in paragraph (e) or (l) and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal. If the Contracting Officer has made a determination of the amount due under paragraph (e), (g), or (l) of this clause, the Government shall pay the Contractor- (k) (k) In arriving at the amount due the Contractor under this clause, there shall be deducted- (l) (l) If the termination is partial, the Contractor may file a proposal with the Contracting Officer for an equitable adjustment of the price(s) of the continued portion of the contract. The Contracting Officer shall make any equitable adjustment agreed upon. Any proposal by the Contractor for an equitable adjustment under this clause shall be requested within 90 days from the effective date of termination unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer. (m) (m) (n) (n) Unless otherwise provided in this contract or by statute, the Contractor shall maintain all records and documents relating to the terminated portion of this contract for 3 years after final settlement. This includes all books and other evidence bearing on the Contractor’s costs and expenses under this contract. The Contractor shall make these records and documents available to the Government, at the Contractor’s office, at all reasonable times, without any direct charge. If approved by the Contracting Officer, photographs, microphotographs, or other authentic reproductions may be maintained instead of original records and documents.
48.104-4 Sharing alternative-no-cost settlement method. No subsections found.
52.222-27 Affirmative Action Compliance Requirements for Construction. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) If the Contractor, or a subcontractor at any tier, subcontracts a portion of the work involving any construction trade, each such subcontract in excess of $10,000 shall include this clause and the Notice containing the goals for minority and female participation stated in the solicitation for this contract. (c) (c) If the Contractor is participating in a Hometown Plan (41 CFR 60-4) approved by the U.S. Department of Labor in a covered area, either individually or through an association, its affirmative action obligations on all work in the plan area (including goals) shall comply with the plan for those trades that have unions participating in the plan. Contractors must be able to demonstrate participation in, and compliance with, the provisions of the plan. Each Contractor or subcontractor participating in an approved plan is also required to comply with its obligations under the Equal Opportunity clause, and to make a good faith effort to achieve each goal under the plan in each trade in which it has employees. The overall good-faith performance by other Contractors or subcontractors toward a goal in an approved plan does not excuse any Contractor’s or subcontractor’s failure to make good-faith efforts to achieve the plan’s goals. (d) (d) The Contractor shall implement the affirmative action procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (16) of this clause. The goals stated in the solicitation for this contract are expressed as percentages of the total hours of employment and training of minority and female utilization that the Contractor should reasonably be able to achieve in each construction trade in which it has employees in the covered area. If the Contractor performs construction work in a geographical area located outside of the covered area, it shall apply the goals established for the geographical area where that work is actually performed. The Contractor is expected to make substantially uniform progress toward its goals in each craft. (e) (e) Neither the terms and conditions of any collective bargaining agreement, nor the failure by a union with which the Contractor has a collective bargaining agreement, to refer minorities or women shall excuse the Contractor’s obligations under this clause, Executive Order 11246, as amended, or the regulations thereunder. (f) (f) In order for the nonworking training hours of apprentices and trainees to be counted in meeting the goals, apprentices and trainees must be employed by the Contractor during the training period, and the Contractor must have made a commitment to employ the apprentices and trainees at the completion of their training, subject to the availability of employment opportunities. Trainees must be trained pursuant to training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor. (g) (g) The Contractor shall take affirmative action to ensure equal employment opportunity. The evaluation of the Contractor’s compliance with this clause shall be based upon its effort to achieve maximum results from its actions. The Contractor shall document these efforts fully and implement affirmative action steps at least as extensive as the following: (h) (h) The Contractor is encouraged to participate in voluntary associations that may assist in fulfilling one or more of the affirmative action obligations contained in paragraphs (g)(1) through (16) of this clause. The efforts of a contractor association, joint contractor-union, contractor-community, or similar group of which the contractor is a member and participant may be asserted as fulfilling one or more of its obligations under paragraphs (g)(1) through (16) of this clause, provided, the Contractor- (i) (i) A single goal for minorities and a separate single goal for women shall be established. The Contractor is required to provide equal employment opportunity and to take affirmative action for all minority groups, both male and female, and all women, both minority and nonminority. Consequently, the Contractor may be in violation of Executive Order 11246, as amended, if a particular group is employed in a substantially disparate manner. (j) (j) The Contractor shall not use goals or affirmative action standards to discriminate against any person because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin. (k) (k) The Contractor shall not enter into any subcontract with any person or firm debarred from Government contracts under Executive Order 11246, as amended. (l) (l) The Contractor shall carry out such sanctions and penalties for violation of this clause and of the Equal Opportunity clause, including suspension, termination, and cancellation of existing subcontracts, as may be imposed or ordered under Executive Order 11246, as amended, and its implementing regulations, by the OFCCP. Any failure to carry out these sanctions and penalties as ordered shall be a violation of this clause and Executive Order 11246, as amended. (m) (m) The Contractor in fulfilling its obligations under this clause shall implement affirmative action procedures at least as extensive as those prescribed in paragraph (g) of this clause, so as to achieve maximum results from its efforts to ensure equal employment opportunity. If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, the implementing regulations, or this clause, the Deputy Assistant Secretary shall take action as prescribed in 41 CFR 60-4.8. (n) (n) The Contractor shall designate a responsible official to- (o) (o) Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a limitation upon the application of other laws that establish different standards of compliance or upon the requirements for the hiring of local or other area residents (e.g., those under the Public Works Employment Act of1977 and the Community Development BlockGrant Program).
11.104 Use of brand name or equal purchase descriptions. (a) (a) While the use of performance specifications is preferred to encourage offerors to propose innovative solutions, the use of brand name or equal purchase descriptions may be advantageous under certain circumstances. (b) (b) Brand name or equal purchase descriptions must include, in addition to the brand name, a general description of those salient physical, functional, or performance characteristics of the brand name item that an "equal" item must meet to be acceptable for award. Use brand name or equal descriptions when the salient characteristics are firm requirements.
Subpart 17.3 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
44.403 Contract clause. No subsections found.
19.102 Small business size standards and North American Industry Classification System codes. (a) (a) Locating size standards and North American Industry Classification System codes. (b) (b) Determining the appropriate NAICS codes for the solicitation. (c) (c) Application of small business size standards to solicitations.
52.236-24 Work Oversight in Architect-Engineer Contracts. No subsections found.
46.202-4 Higher-level contract quality requirements. (a) (a) Agencies shall establish procedures for determining when higher-level contract quality requirements are necessary, for determining the risk (both the likelihood and the impact) of nonconformance, and for advising the contracting officer about which higher-level standards should be applied and included in the solicitation and contract. Requiring compliance with higher-level quality standards is necessary in solicitations and contracts for complex or critical items (see 46.203)or when the technical requirements of the contract require- (b) (b) Examples of higher-level quality standards include overarching quality management system standards such as ISO 9001, ASQ/ANSI E4, ASME NQA-1, SAE AS9100, SAE AS9003, and ISO/TS 16949, and product or process specific quality standards such as SAE AS5553.
Subpart 7.4 - Equipment Acquisition No subsections found.
31.107 Contracts with State, local, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments. (a) (a) subpart  31.6 provides principles and standards for determining costs applicable to contracts with State, local, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments. They provide the basis for a uniform approach to the problem of determining costs and to promote efficiency and better relationships between State, local, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments, and Federal Government entities. They apply to all programs that involve contracts with State, local, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments, except contracts with- (b) (b) The Office of Management and Budget will approve any other exceptions in particular cases when adequate justification is presented.
22.1002-1 General. No subsections found.
39.101 Policy. (a) (a) (b) (b) Agencies must follow OMB Circular A-127, Financial Management Systems, when acquiring financial management systems. Agencies may acquire only core financial management software certified by the Joint Financial Management Improvement Program. (c) (c) In acquiring information technology, agencies shall include the appropriate information technology security policies and requirements, including use of common security configurations available from the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s website at http://checklists.nist.gov. Agency contracting officers should consult with the requiring official to ensure the appropriate standards are incorporated. (d) (d) When acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, agencies must include the appropriate Internet Protocol compliance requirements in accordance with 11.002(g). (e) (e) Contracting officers shall not purchase any hardware, software, or services developed or provided by Kaspersky Lab that the Government will use on or after October 1, 2018. (See 4.2002.) (f) (f) (g) (g) See the prohibition in 4.2202 on the presence or use of a covered application (“TikTok”). (h) (h) Executive agencies are prohibited from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to procure or obtain, any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, including contractor use of covered articles or sources, if prohibited from doing so by an applicable FASCSA order issued by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, or Secretary of Homeland Security (see 4.2303). (i) (i) Executive agencies must comply with the prohibitions on unmanned aircraft systems (e.g., drones) in accordance with 40.202.
11.801 Preaward in-use evaluation. No subsections found.
25.702-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
5.705 Publicizing postaward. (a) (a) (b) (b) Regardless of dollar value, if the contract action, including all modifications and orders under task or delivery order contracts, is not both fixed-price and competitively awarded, publicize the award notice and include in the description the rationale for using other than a fixed-priced and/or competitive approach. Include in the description a statement specifically noting if the contract action was not awarded competitively, or was not fixed-price, or was neither competitive nor fixed-price. These notices and the rationale will be available to the public at the GPE, so do not include any proprietary information or information that would compromise national security. The following table provides examples for when a rationale is required. (c) (c) Contracting officers shall use the instructions available in the Recovery FAQs under "Buyers/Engineers" at the GPE ( https://www.sam.gov ) to identify actions funded in whole or in part by the Recovery Act.
49.604 Release of excess funds under terminated contracts. No subsections found.
19.807 Estimating fair market price. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall estimate the fair market price of the work to be performed by the 8(a) contractor. (b) (b) In estimating the fair market price for an acquisition other than those covered in paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall use cost or price analysis and consider commercial prices for similar products and services, available in-house cost estimates, data (including certified cost or pricing data) submitted by the SBA or the 8(a) contractor, and data obtained from any other Government agency. (c) (c) In estimating a fair market price for a repeat purchase, the contracting officer shall consider recent award prices for the same items or work if there is comparability in quantities, conditions, terms, and performance times. The estimated price should be adjusted to reflect differences in specifications, plans, transportation costs, packaging and packing costs, and other circumstances. Price indices may be used as guides to determine the changes in labor and material costs. Comparison of commercial prices for similar items may also be used.
52.216-32 Task-Order and Delivery-Order	Ombudsman. (a) (a) In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 4106(g), the Agency has designated the following task-order and delivery-order Ombudsman for this contract. The Ombudsman must review complaints from the Contractor concerning all task-order and delivery-order actions for this contract and ensure the Contractor is afforded a fair opportunity for consideration in the award of orders, consistent with the procedures in the contract.  _____________ [Contracting Officer to insert name, address, telephone number, and email address for the Agency Ombudsman or provide the URL address where this information may be found.] (b) (b) Consulting	an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timeline for any other	process (e.g., protests). (c) (c) Before	consulting with the Ombudsman, the Contractor is encouraged to first	address complaints with the Contracting Officer for resolution.	When requested by the Contractor, the Ombudsman may keep the identity	of the concerned party or entity confidential, unless prohibited	by law or agency procedure.
19.809-2 Limitations on subcontracting and nonmanufacturer rule. (a) (a) Limitations on subcontracting. To be awarded a contract or order under the 8(a) program, the 8(a) participant is required to perform— (b) (b) Compliance period. An 8(a) contractor is required to comply with the limitations on subcontracting— (c) (c) Waiver. The applicable SBA District Director may waive the provisions in paragraph (b)(1) requiring a participant to comply with the limitations on subcontracting for each period of performance or for each order. Instead, the SBA District Director may permit the participant to subcontract in excess of the limitations on subcontracting where the SBA District Director makes a written determination that larger amounts of subcontracting are essential during certain stages of performance. (d) (d) Nonmanufacturer rule. See 19.505(c) for application of the nonmanufacturer rule, inclusive of waivers and exceptions to the nonmanufacturer rule.
Subpart 41.4 - Administration No subsections found.
31.205-7 Contingencies. (a) (a) "Contingency," as used in this subpart, means a possible future event or condition arising from presently known or unknown causes, the outcome of which is indeterminable at the present time. (b) (b) Costs for contingencies are generally unallowable for historical costing purposes because such costing deals with costs incurred and recorded on the contractor’s books. However, in some cases, as for example, terminations, a contingency factor may be recognized when it is applicable to a past period to give recognition to minor unsettled factors in the interest of expediting settlement. (c) (c) In connection with estimates of future costs, contingencies fall into two categories:
16.202-2 Application. (a) (a) There is adequate price competition; (b) (b) There are reasonable price comparisons with prior purchases of the same or similar supplies or services made on a competitive basis or supported by valid certified cost or pricing data; (c) (c) Available cost or pricing information permits realistic estimates of the probable costs of performance; or (d) (d) Performance uncertainties can be identified and reasonable estimates of their cost impact can be made, and the contractor is willing to accept a firm fixed price representing assumption of the risks involved.
14.407-2 Apparent clerical mistakes. (a) (a) Any clerical mistake, apparent on its face in the bid, may be corrected by the contracting officer before award. The contracting officer first shall obtain from the bidder a verification of the bid intended. Examples of apparent mistakes are- (b) (b) Correction of the bid shall be effected by attaching the verification to the original bid and a copy of the verification to the duplicate bid. Correction shall not be made on the face of the bid; however, it shall be reflected in the award document. (c) (c) Correction of bids submitted by electronic data interchange shall be effected by including in the electronic solicitation file the original bid, the verification request, and the bid verification.
9.204 Responsibilities for establishment of a qualification requirement. (a) (a) Arranging publicity for the qualification requirements. If active competition on anticipated future qualification requirements is likely to be fewer than two manufacturers or the products of two manufacturers, the activity responsible for establishment of the qualification requirements must- (b) (b) Qualifying products that meet specification requirements. (c) (c) Listing manufacturers and suppliers whose products are qualified in accordance with agency procedures. (d) (d) Furnishing QPL’s, QML’s, or QBL’s or the qualification requirements themselves to prospective offerors and the public upon request (see 9.202(a)(2)(i)). (e) (e) Clarifying, as necessary, qualification requirements. (f) (f) In appropriate cases, when requested by the contracting officer, providing concurrence in a decision not to enforce a qualification requirement for a solicitation. (g) (g) Withdrawing or omitting qualification of a listed product, manufacturer or offeror, as necessary. (h) (h) Advising persons furnished any list of products, manufacturers or offerors meeting a qualification requirement and suppliers whose products are on any such list that- (i) (i) Reexamining a qualified product or manufacturer when-
1.202 Agency compliance with the FAR. No subsections found.
37.201 Definition. No subsections found.
25.001 General. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American- (b) (b) The restrictions in the Buy American statute are not applicable in acquisitions subject to certain trade agreements (see subpart  25.4). In these acquisitions, end products and construction materials from certain countries receive nondiscriminatory treatment in evaluation with domestic offers. Generally, the dollar value of the acquisition determines which of the trade agreements applies. Exceptions to the applicability of the trade agreements are described in subpart  25.4. (c) (c) The test to determine the country of origin for an end product under the Buy American statute (see the various country "end product" definitions in 25.003) is different from the test to determine the country of origin for an end product under the trade agreements, or the criteria for the representation on end products manufactured outside the United States (see 52.225-18).
32.905 Payment documentation and process. (a) (a) General. Payment will be based on receipt of a proper invoice and satisfactory contract performance. (b) (b) Content of invoices. (c) (c) Authorization to pay. All invoice payments, with the exception of interim payments on cost-reimbursement contracts for services, must be supported by a receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing payment (e.g., Government certified voucher). The agency receiving official should forward the receiving report or other Government documentation to the designated payment office by the 5th working day after Government acceptance or approval, unless other arrangements have been made. This period of time does not extend the due dates prescribed in this section. Acceptance should be completed as expeditiously as possible. The receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing payment must, as a minimum, include the following: (d) (d) Billing office. The designated billing office must immediately annotate each invoice with the actual date it receives the invoice. (e) (e) Payment office. The designated payment office will annotate each invoice and receiving report with the actual date it receives the invoice.
52.211-12 Liquidated Damages-Construction. (a) (a) If the Contractor fails to complete the work within the time specified in the contract, the Contractor shall pay liquidated damages to the Government in the amount of ____________ [Contracting Officer insert amount] for each calendar day of delay until the work is completed or accepted. (b) (b) If the Government terminates the Contractor’s right to proceed, liquidated damages will continue to accrue until the work is completed. These liquidated damages are in addition to excess costs of repurchase under the Termination clause.
47.504 Exceptions. (a) (a) Shipments aboard vessels as required or authorized by law or treaty. (b) (b) Ocean transportation between foreign countries of supplies purchased with foreign currencies made available, or derived from funds that are made available, under the Foreign Assistance Act of1961 (22 U.S.C. 2353). (c) (c) Shipments of classified supplies when the classification prohibits the use of non-Government vessels. (d) (d) Subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products, including commercial components, or commercial services (see 12.504(a)(1) and (a)(11)). This exception does not apply to-
13.303-8 Optional clause. No subsections found.
27.409 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) Generally, a contract should contain only one data rights clause. However, where more than one is needed, the contract should distinguish the portion of contract performance to which each pertains. (b) (b) (c) (c) In accordance with 27.404-2(c)(2) and 27.404-2(d)(5), if the contracting officer desires to have an offeror state in response to a solicitation whether limited rights data or restricted computer software are likely to be used in meeting the data delivery requirements set forth in the solicitation, insert the provision at 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software, in any solicitation containing the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General. The contractor’s response may provide an aid in determining whether the clause should be used with Alternate II and/or Alternate III. (d) (d) Insert the clause at 52.227-16, Additional Data Requirements, in solicitations and contracts involving experimental, developmental, research, or demonstration work (other than basic or applied research to be performed solely by a university or college where the contract amount will be $500,000 or less) unless all the requirements for data are believed to be known at the time of contracting and specified in the contract (see 27.406-2). This clause may also be used in other contracts when considered appropriate. For example, if the contract is for basic or applied research to be performed by a university or college, and the contracting officer believes the contract effort will in the future exceed $500,000, even though the initial award does not, the contracting officer may include the clause in the initial award. (e) (e) In accordance with 27.405-1, insert the clause at 52.227-17, Rights in Data-Special Works, in solicitations and contracts primarily for the production or compilation of data (other than limited rights data or restricted computer software) for the Government’s internal use, or when there is a specific need to limit distribution and use of the data or to obtain indemnity for liabilities that may arise out of the content, performance, or disclosure of the data. Examples of such contracts are set forth in 27.405-1. (f) (f) Insert the clause at 52.227-18, Rights in Data-Existing Works, in solicitations and contracts exclusively for the acquisition, without modification, of existing audiovisual and similar works of the type set forth in 27.405-2. The contract may set forth limitations consistent with the purposes for which the work is being acquired. While no specific clause of this subpart is required to be included in contracts solely for the acquisition, without disclosure prohibitions, of books, publications, and similar items in the exact form in which the items exist prior to the request for purchase (i.e., the off-the-shelf purchase of such items), or in other contracts where only existing data available without disclosure prohibitions is to be furnished, if reproduction rights are to be acquired, the contract shall include terms addressing such rights. (See 27.405-4.) (g) (g) In accordance with 27.405-3, when contracting (other than from GSA’s Multiple Award Schedule contracts) for the acquisition of commercial computer software, the contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.227-19, Commercial Computer Software License, in the solicitation and contract. In any event, the contracting officer shall assure that the contract contains terms to obtain sufficient rights for the Government to fulfill the need for which the software is being acquired and is otherwise consistent with 27.405-3. (h) (h) If the contract is a Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) contract, insert the clause at 52.227-20, Rights in Data-SBIR Program in all Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III contracts awarded under the Small Business Innovation Research Program established pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 638. The SBIR protection period may be extended in accordance with the Small Business Administration’s "Small Business Innovation Research Program Policy Directive" (September24,2002). (i) (i) Agencies may prescribe in their procedures, as appropriate, a clause consistent with the policy of 27.402 in contracts- (j) (j) In accordance with 27.406-3(a), insert the clause at 52.227-21, Technical Data Declaration, Revision, and Withholding of Payment-Major Systems, in contracts for major systems acquisitions or for support of major systems acquisitions. This requirement includes contracts for detailed design, development, or production of a major system and contracts for any individual part, component, subassembly, assembly, or subsystem integral to the major system, and other property that may be replaced during the service life of the system, including spare parts. When used, this clause requires that the technical data to which it applies be specified in the contract (see 27.406-3(a)). (k) (k) In accordance with 27.406-3(b), in the case of civilian agencies other than NASA and the U.S. Coast Guard, insert the clause at 52.227-22, Major System-Minimum Rights, in contracts for major systems or contracts in support of major systems. (l) (l) In accordance with 27.407, if a contracting officer desires to acquire unlimited rights in technical data contained in a successful proposal upon which a contract award is based, insert the clause at 52.227-23, Rights to Proposal Data (Technical). Rights to technical data in a proposal are not acquired by mere incorporation by reference of the proposal in the contract, and if a proposal is incorporated by reference, the contracting officer shall follow 27.404 to assure that the rights are appropriately addressed.
3.403 Applicability. No subsections found.
7.107-5 Notifications. (a) (a) Notifications to current small business contractors of agency's intent to bundle. (b) (b) Notification to public of rationale for bundled requirement. The agency is encouraged to provide notification of the rationale for any bundled requirement to the GPE, before issuance of the solicitation (see 5.201). (c) (c) Notification to the public of consolidation of contract requirements. The SPE or CAO shall publish in the GPE— (d) (d) Notification to the public of substantial bundling of contract requirements. The head of the agency shall publish in the GPE— (e) (e) Notification to SBA of follow-on bundled or consolidated requirements. For each follow-on bundled or consolidated requirement, the contracting officer shall obtain the following from the requiring activity and notify the SBA PCR no later than 30 days prior to issuance of the solicitation: (f) (f) Annual notification to the public of the rationale for bundled requirements. The agency shall publish on its website a list and rationale for any bundled requirement for which the agency solicited offers or issued an award. The notification shall be made annually within 30 days of the agency's data certification regarding the validity and verification of data entered in the Federal Procurement Data System to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (see 4.604). (g) (g) Notification to public of bundling policy. In accordance with 15 U.S.C. 644(q)(2)(A)(ii), agencies shall publish the Governmentwide policy regarding contract bundling, including regarding the solicitation of teaming and joint ventures, on their agency website.
51.203 Means of obtaining service. (a) (a) Authorized contractors shall submit requests for interagency fleet management system (IFMS) vehicles and related services in writing to the appropriate GSA regional Federal Supply Service Bureau, Attention: Regional fleet manager, except that requests for more than five vehicles shall be submitted to: (b) (b) Contractors requesting unusual quantities of vehicles should do so as far in advance as possible to facilitate availability.
7.104 General procedures. (a) (a) Acquisition planning should begin	as soon as the agency need is identified, preferably well in advance	of the fiscal year in which contract award or order placement is	necessary. In developing the plan, the planner shall form a team	consisting of all those who will be responsible for significant	aspects of the acquisition, such as contracting, small business, fiscal,	legal, and technical personnel. If contract performance is to be	in a designated operational area or supporting a diplomatic or consular	mission, the planner shall also consider inclusion of the combatant	commander or chief of mission, as appropriate. The planner should	review previous plans for similar acquisitions and discuss them	with the key personnel involved in those acquisitions. At key dates	specified in the plan or whenever significant changes occur, and	no less often than annually, the planner shall review the plan and,	if appropriate, revise it. (b) (b) Requirements	and logistics personnel should avoid issuing requirements on an	urgent basis or with unrealistic delivery or performance schedules,	since it generally restricts competition and increases prices. Early	in the planning process, the planner should consult with requirements	and logistics personnel who determine type, quality, quantity, and	delivery requirements. (c) (c) The planner	shall coordinate with and secure the concurrence of the contracting	officer in all acquisition planning. If the plan proposes using	other than full and open competition when awarding a contract, the	plan shall also be coordinated with the cognizant advocate for competition. (d) (d) The planner	shall coordinate the acquisition plan or strategy with the cognizant	small business specialist when the strategy contemplates an acquisition	meeting the thresholds in 7.107-4 for substantial	bundling unless the contract or task order or delivery order is	totally set-aside for small business under part  19.	The small business specialist shall notify the agency Office of	Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization or the Office of Small	Business Programs if the strategy involves- (e) (e) The planner	shall ensure that a COR is nominated as early as practicable in	the acquisition process by the requirements official or in accordance	with agency procedures. The contracting officer shall designate	and authorize a COR as early as practicable after the nomination.	See 1.602-2(d).
16.504 Indefinite-quantity contracts. (a) (a) Description. An indefinite-quantity contract provides for an indefinite quantity, within stated limits, of supplies or services during a fixed period. The Government places orders for individual requirements. Quantity limits may be stated as number of units or as dollar values. (b) (b) Application. Contracting officers may use an indefinite-quantity contract when the Government cannot predetermine, above a specified minimum, the precise quantities of supplies or services that the Government will require during the contract period, and it is inadvisable for the Government to commit itself for more than a minimum quantity. The contracting officer should use an indefinite-quantity contract only when a recurring need is anticipated. (c) (c) Multiple award preference-
42.1504 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.231 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.226-6 Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) In accordance with the Federal Food Donation Act of 2008 (42 U.S.C. 1792), the Contractor is encouraged, to the maximum extent practicable and safe, to donate excess, apparently wholesome food to nonprofit organizations that provide assistance to food-insecure people in the United States. (c) (c) Costs. (d) (d) Liability. The Government and the Contractor, including any subcontractors, shall be exempt from civil and criminal liability to the extent provided under the Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act (42 U.S.C. 1791). Nothing in this clause shall be construed to supersede State or local health regulations (subsection (f) of 42 U.S.C. 1791). (e) (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert this clause in all contracts, task orders, delivery orders, purchase orders, and other similar instruments that exceed the threshold specified in Federal Acquisition Regulation 26.404 on the date of subcontract award with its subcontractors or suppliers, at any tier, who will perform, under this contract, the provision, service, or sale of food in the United States.
Subpart 14.2 - Solicitation of Bids No subsections found.
19.203 Relationship among small	business programs. (a) (a) General. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) Program (subpart 19.8), HUBZone Program (subpart 19.13), Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Program (subpart 19.14), or the Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program (subpart 19.15). (b) (b) At or	below the simplified acquisition threshold. For acquisitions of supplies	or services that have an anticipated dollar value above the micro-purchase	threshold, but at or below the simplified acquisition threshold,	the requirement at 19.502-2(a)	to set aside acquisitions for small business concerns does not preclude	the contracting officer from awarding a contract to a small business	under the 8(a) Program, HUBZone Program, SDVOSB Program, or WOSB	Program. (c) (c) Above the simplified acquisition threshold. For acquisitions of supplies or services that have an anticipated dollar value exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold definition at 2.101, the contracting officer shall first consider an acquisition for the small business socioeconomic contracting programs (i.e., 8(a), HUBZone, SDVOSB, or WOSB programs) before considering a small business set-aside (see 19.502-2(b)). However, if a requirement has been accepted by the SBA under the 8(a) Program, it must remain in the 8(a) Program unless the SBA agrees to its release in accordance with 13 CFR parts 124, 126, 127, and 128. (d) (d) In determining	which socioeconomic program to use for an acquisition, the contracting	officer should consider, at a minimum- (e) (e) Small business	set-asides have priority over acquisitions using full and open competition.	See requirements for establishing a small business set-aside at	subpart 19.5.
Part 28 - Bonds and Insurance No subsections found.
52.237-4 Payment by Government to Contractor. (a) (a) In ______ [insert "full" if Alternate I is used; otherwise insert "partial"] consideration of the performance of the work called for in the Schedule, the Government will pay to the Contractor ______________ [fill in amount]. (b) (b) The Government shall make progress payments monthly as the work proceeds, or at more frequent intervals as determined by the Contracting Officer, on estimates approved by the Contracting Officer. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, in making progress payments the Contracting Officer shall retain 10 percent of the estimated payment until final completion and acceptance of the contract work. However, if the Contracting Officer finds that satisfactory progress was achieved during any period for which a progress payment is to be made, the Contracting Officer may authorize such payment in full, without retaining a percentage. Also, on completion and acceptance of each unit or division for which the price is stated separately, the Contracting Officer may authorize full payment for that unit or division without retaining a percentage. (c) (c) When the work is substantially completed, the Contracting Officer shall retain an amount considered adequate for the protection of the Government and, at the Contracting Officer’s discretion, may release all or a portion of any excess amount. (d) (d) In further consideration of performance, the Contractor shall receive title to all property to be dismantled or demolished that is not specifically designated as being retained by the Government. The title shall vest in the Contractor immediately upon the Government’s issuing the notice of award, or if a performance bond is to be furnished after award, upon the Government’s issuance of a notice to proceed with the work. The Government shall not be responsible for the condition of, or any loss or damage to, the property. If the Contractor does not wish to remove from the site any of the property acquired, the Contracting Officer may, upon written request, grant the Contractor permission to leave the property on the premises. As a condition to the granting of this permission, the Contractor agrees to waive any right, title, claim, or interest in and to the property. (e) (e) Upon completion and acceptance of all work and receipt of a properly executed voucher, the Government shall make final payment of the amount due the Contractor under this contract. If requested, the Contractor shall release all claims against the Government arising under this contract, other than any claims the Contractor specifically excepts, in stated amounts, from operation of this release.
27.406-1 General. (a) (a) It is the Government’s practice to determine, to the extent feasible, its data requirements in time for inclusion in solicitations. The data requirements may be subject to revision during contract negotiations. Since the preparation, reformatting, maintenance and updating, cataloging, and storage of data represents an expense to both the Government and the contractor, efforts should be made to keep the contract data requirements to a minimum, consistent with the purposes of the contract. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall specify in the contract all known data requirements, including the time and place for delivery and any limitations and restrictions to be imposed on the contractor in the handling of the data. Further, and to the extent feasible, in major system acquisitions, the contracting officer shall set out data requirements as separate line items. In establishing the contract data requirements and in specifying data items to be delivered by a contractor, agencies may, consistent with paragraph (a) of this subsection, develop their own contract schedule provisions. Agency procedures may, among other things, provide for listing, specifying, identifying source, assuring delivery, and handling any data required to be delivered, first produced, or specifically used in the performance of the contract. (c) (c) Data delivery requirements should normally not require that a contractor provide the Government, as a condition of the procurement, unlimited rights in data that qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software. Rather, form, fit, and function data may be furnished with unlimited rights instead of the qualifying data, or the qualifying data may be furnished with limited rights or restricted rights if needed (see 27.404-2(c) and (d)). If greater rights are needed, they should be clearly set forth in the solicitation and the contractor fairly compensated for the greater rights.
8.603 Purchase priorities. (a) (a) Supplies. (b) (b) Services.
32.1110 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at- (b) (b) If the head of the agency has authorized, in accordance with 32.1106, to use a nondomestic EFT mechanism, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts a clause substantially the same as 52.232-33 or 52.232-34 that clearly addresses the nondomestic EFT mechanism. (c) (c) If EFT information is to be submitted to other than the payment office in accordance with agency procedures, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.232-35, Designation of Office for Government Receipt of Electronic Funds Transfer Information, or a clause substantially the same as 52.232-35 that clearly informs the contractor where to send the EFT information. (d) (d) If payment under a written contract will be made by a charge to a Government account with a third party such as a Governmentwide commercial purchase card, then the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party, in solicitations and contracts. Payment by a purchase card may also be made under a contract that does not contain the clause at 52.232-36, to the extent the contractor agrees to accept that method of payment. When the clause at 52.232-36 is included in a solicitation or contract, the contracting officer shall also insert the clause at 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-System for Award Management, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Other Than System for Award Management, as appropriate. (e) (e) If the contract or agreement provides for the use of delivery orders, and provides that the ordering office designate the method of payment for individual orders, the contracting officer shall insert, in the solicitation and contract or agreement, the clause at 52.232-37, Multiple Payment Arrangements, and, to the extent they are applicable, the clauses at- (f) (f) If more than one disbursing office will make payment under a contract or agreement, the contracting officer, or ordering office (if the contract provides for choices between EFT clauses on individual orders or classes of orders), shall include or identify the EFT clause appropriate for each office and shall identify the applicability by disbursing office and line item. (g) (g) If the solicitation contains the clause at 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Other than System for Award Management, and an offeror is required to submit EFT information prior to award-
Subpart 36.6 - Architect-Engineer Services No subsections found.
52.247-30 F.o.b. Origin, Contractor’s Facility. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered on board the indicated type of conveyance of the carrier (or of the Government, if specified) at the designated facility, on the named street or highway, in the city, county, and State from which the shipment will be made. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
52.204-2 Security Requirements. (a) (a) This clause applies to the extent that this contract involves access to information classified "Confidential," "Secret," or "Top Secret." (b) (b) The Contractor shall comply with- (c) (c) If, subsequent to the date of this contract, the security classification or security requirements under this contract are changed by the Government and if the changes cause an increase or decrease in security costs or otherwise affect any other term or condition of this contract, the contract shall be subject to an equitable adjustment as if the changes were directed under the Changes clause of this contract. (d) (d) The Contractor agrees to insert terms that conform substantially to the language of this clause, including this paragraph (d) but excluding any reference to the Changes clause of this contract, in all subcontracts under this contract that involve access to classified information.
52.223-10 Waste Reduction Program. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Consistent with the requirements of section 207 of Executive Order 14057, the Contractor shall establish a program to promote cost-effective waste reduction in all operations and facilities covered by this contract. The Contractor’s programs shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local requirements, specifically including Section 6002 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C.6962, etseq.) and implementing regulations (40 CFR Part 247).
32.108 Financial consultation. (a) (a) The financial capability of an offeror or contractor to perform a contract, or (b) (b) What form of contract financing is appropriate in a given case, the contracting officer should consult the appropriate contract financing office.
Subpart 27.4 - Rights in Data and Copyrights No subsections found.
33.210 Contracting officer’s authority. (a) (a) A claim or dispute for penalties or forfeitures prescribed by statute or regulation that another Federal agency is specifically authorized to administer, settle, or determine; or (b) (b) The settlement, compromise, payment, or adjustment of any claim involving fraud.
4.1702 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to– (b) (b) Procedures for compiling and submitting agency service contract inventories are governed by section 743(a)(3) of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117 and Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) guidance. The guidance is available at the following Web site: https://www.whitehouse.gov/​wp-content/​uploads/​legacy_​drupal_​files/​omb/​memoranda/​2017/​service_​contract_​inventories.pdf. (c) (c) This subpart addresses requirements for obtaining information from, and reporting by, agency service contractors.
52.222-60 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
32.301 Definitions. No subsections found.
18.126 Contractor rent-free use of Government property. No subsections found.
52.217-9 Option to Extend the Term of the Contract. (a) (a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within _____ [insert the period of time within which the Contracting Officer may exercise the option]; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least _____ days[60days unless a different number of days is inserted] before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed ___________ (months) (years).
17.103 Definitions. No subsections found.
Part 15 - Contracting by Negotiation No subsections found.
22.1402 Applicability. (a) (a) Section 503 of the Act applies to all Government contracts in excess of $15,000 for supplies and services (including construction) except as waived by the Secretary of Labor. The clause at 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities, implements the Act. (b) (b) The requirements of the clause at 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities, in any contract with a State or local government (or any agency, instrumentality, or subdivision) shall not apply to any agency, instrumentality, or subdivision of that government that does not participate in work on or under the contract.
36.606 Negotiations. (a) (a) Unless otherwise specified by the selection authority, the final selection authorizes the contracting officer to begin negotiations. Negotiations shall be conducted in accordance with part  15 of this chapter, beginning with the most preferred firm in the final selection (see 15.404-4(c)(4)(i) on fee limitation). (b) (b) The contracting officer should ordinarily request a proposal from the firm, ensuring that the solicitation does not inadvertently preclude the firm from proposing the use of modern design methods. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall inform the firm that no construction contract may be awarded to the firm that designed the project, except as provided in 36.209. (d) (d) During negotiations, the contracting officer should seek advance agreement (see 31.109) on any charges for computer-assisted design. When the firm’s proposal does not cover appropriate modern and cost-effective design methods (e.g., computer-assisted design), the contracting officer should discuss this topic with the firm. (e) (e) Because selection of firms is based upon qualifications, the extent of any subcontracting is an important negotiation topic. The clause prescribed at 44.204(b), Subcontractors and Outside Associates and Consultants (Architect-Engineer Services) (see 52.244-4), limits a firm’s subcontracting to firms agreed upon during negotiations. (f) (f) If a mutually satisfactory contract cannot be negotiated, the contracting officer shall obtain a written final proposal revision from the firm, and notify the firm that negotiations have been terminated. The contracting officer shall then initiate negotiations with the next firm on the final selection list. This procedure shall be continued until a mutually satisfactory contract has been negotiated. If negotiations fail with all selected firms, the contracting officer shall refer the matter to the selection authority who, after consulting with the contracting officer as to why a contract cannot be negotiated, may direct the evaluation board to recommend additional firms in accordance with 36.602.
13.404 Contract clause. No subsections found.
36.601-2 Competition. No subsections found.
46.103 Contracting office responsibilities. (a) (a) Receiving from the activity responsible for technical requirements any specifications for inspection, testing, and other contract quality requirements essential to ensure the integrity of the supplies or services (the activity responsible for technical requirements is responsible for prescribing contract quality requirements, such as inspection and testing requirements or, for service contracts, a quality assurance surveillance plan); (b) (b) Including in solicitations and contracts the appropriate requirements for the contractor’s control of quality for the supplies or services to be acquired; (c) (c) Issuing any necessary instructions to the cognizant contract administration office and acting on recommendations submitted by that office (see 42.301 and 46.104(f)); (d) (d) When contract administration is retained (see 42.201), verifying that the contractor fulfills the contract quality requirements; and (e) (e) Ensuring that nonconformances are identified, and establishing the significance of a nonconformance when considering the acceptability of supplies or services which do not meet contract requirements.
19.1301 General. (a) (a) The Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Act of 1997 (15 U.S.C.631 note) created the HUBZone Program. (b) (b) The purpose of the HUBZone Program is to provide Federal contracting assistance for qualified small business concerns located in historically underutilized business zones, in an effort to increase employment opportunities, investment, and economic development in those areas.
52.204-26 Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision, "covered telecommunications equipment or services" and "reasonable inquiry" have the meaning provided in the clause 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment. (b) (b) Procedures. The Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System for Award Management (SAM) (https://www.sam.gov) for entities excluded from receiving federal awards for "covered telecommunications equipment or services". (c) (c)
32.304-3 Asset formula. (a) (a) Under guaranteed loans made primarily for working capital purposes, the agency shall normally limit the guarantee, by use of an asset formula, to an amount that does not exceed a specified percentage (90 percent or less) of the contractor’s investment (e.g., payrolls and inventories) in defense production contracts. The asset formula may include all items under defense contracts for which the contractor would be entitled to payment on performance or termination. The formula shall exclude- (b) (b) Progress payments are deducted from the asset formula. (c) (c) The agency may relax the asset formula to an appropriate extent for the time actually necessary for contract performance, if the contractor’s working capital and credit are inadequate.
51.102 Authorization to use Government supply sources. (a) (a) Before issuing an authorization to a contractor to use Government supply sources in accordance with 51.101(a) or (b), the contracting officer shall place in the contract file a written finding supporting issuance of the authorization. A written finding is not required when authorizing use of Government supply sources in accordance with 51.101(c). Except for findings under 51.101(a)(3), the determination shall be based on, but not limited to, considerations of the following factors: (b) (b) Authorizations to subcontractors shall be issued through, and with the approval of, the contractor. (c) (c) Upon deciding to authorize a contractor to use Government supply sources, the contracting officer shall request, in writing, as applicable- (d) (d) Each request made under paragraph (c) of this section shall contain- (e) (e) In each authorization to the contractor, the contracting officer- (f) (f) After issuing the authorization, the authorizing agency shall be responsible for-
3.702 Definition. No subsections found.
12.302 Tailoring of provisions and clauses for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services. (a) (a) General. The provisions and clauses established in this subpart are intended to address, to the maximum extent practicable, commercial market practices for a wide range of potential Government acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services. However, because of the broad range of commercial products and commercial services acquired by the Government, variations in commercial practices, and the relative volume of the Government’s acquisitions in the specific market, contracting officers may, within the limitations of this subpart, and after conducting appropriate market research, tailor the provision at 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, and the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, to adapt to the market conditions for each acquisition. (b) (b) Tailoring 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services. The following paragraphs of the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, implement statutory requirements and shall not be tailored— (c) (c) Tailoring inconsistent with customary commercial practice. The contracting officer shall not tailor any clause or otherwise include any additional terms or conditions in a solicitation or contract for commercial products or commercial services in a manner that is inconsistent with customary commercial practice for the item being acquired unless a waiver is approved in accordance with agency procedures. The request for waiver must describe the customary commercial practice found in the marketplace, support the need to include a term or condition that is inconsistent with that practice and include a determination that use of the customary commercial practice is inconsistent with the needs of the Government. A waiver may be requested for an individual or class of contracts for that specific item. (d) (d) Tailoring shall be by addenda to the solicitation and contract. The contracting officer shall indicate in Block27 a of the SF1449 if addenda are attached. These addenda may include, for example, a continuation of the schedule of supplies/services to be acquired from blocks 18 through 21 of the SF1449; a continuation of the description of the supplies/services being acquired; further elaboration of any other item(s) on the SF1449; any other terms or conditions necessary for the performance of the proposed contract (such as options, ordering procedures for indefinite-delivery type contracts, warranties, contract financing arrangements, etc.).
27.501 General. No subsections found.
Subpart 42.5 - Postaward Orientation No subsections found.
9.105 Procedures. No subsections found.
14.404-3 Notice to bidders of rejection of all bids. No subsections found.
1.105-2 Arrangement of regulations. (a) (a) General. The FAR is divided into subchapters, parts (each of which covers a separate aspect of acquisition), subparts, sections, and subsections. (b) (b) Numbering. (c) (c) References and citations.
22.1021 Request for hearing. (a) (a) A contracting agency or other interested party may request a hearing on an issue presented in 22.1013(a). To obtain a hearing for the contracting agency, the contracting officer shall submit a written request through appropriate channels (ordinarily the agency labor advisor) to— (b) (b) A request for a substantial variance hearing shall include sufficient data to show that the rates at issue vary substantially from those prevailing for similar services in the locality. The request shall also include- (c) (c) A request for an arm’s length hearing shall include- (d) (d) Unless the Administrator determines that extraordinary circumstances exist, the Administrator will not consider requests for a hearing unless received as follows:
50.103-3 Contract adjustment. (a) (a) Contractor requests. A contractor seeking a contract adjustment shall submit a request in duplicate to the contracting officer or an authorized representative. The request, normally a letter, shall state as a minimum- (b) (b) Contractor certification. A contractor seeking a contract adjustment that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold shall, at the time the request is submitted, submit a certification by a person authorized to certify the request on behalf of the contractor that-
1.103 Authority. (a) (a) The development of the FAR System is in accordance with the requirements of 41 U.S.C. chapter 13, Acquisition Councils. (b) (b) The FAR is prepared, issued, and maintained, and the FAR System is prescribed jointly by the Secretary of Defense, the Administrator of General Services, and the Administrator, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, under their several statutory authorities.
Subpart 4.5 - Electronic Commerce in Contracting No subsections found.
47.305-6 Shipments to ports and air terminals. (a) (a) When supplies are acquired on the basis of the delivery terms in 47.303-8 through 47.303-16, the solicitation shall include a requirement that the offeror furnish the Government the following information: (b) (b) When supplies are acquired for known destinations outside CONUS and originate within CONUS, the contracting officer shall, for transportation evaluation purposes, note in the solicitation the CONUS port of loading or point of exit (aerial or water) and the water port of debarkation that serves the overseas destination. (c) (c) The contracting officer may also, for evaluation purposes, list in the solicitation other CONUS ports that meet the eligibility criteria compatible with the nature and quantity of the supplies, their destination, type of carrier required, and specified overseas delivery dates. This permits offerors that are geographically remote from the port that normally serves the overseas destination to be competitive as far as transportation costs are concerned. (d) (d) Unless logistics requirements limit the ports of loading to the ports listed in the solicitation, the solicitation shall state that- (e) (e) When supplies are to be exported through CONUS ports and offers are solicited on an f.o.b. origin or f.o.b. destination basis, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations the provision at 52.247-51, Evaluation of Export Offers. The contracting officer shall use the provision with its- (f) (f) (g) (g) When a contract will not generate any shipments that require an Export Release, only the DoD CONUS ports that serve the overseas destination shall be listed in the solicitation, except that the responsible contracting officer may limit the water ports listed when such limitation is considered necessary to meet delivery or other requirements. (h) (h) The award shall specify the United States ports of loading that afford the lowest overall cost to the overseas destination. (i) (i) When supplies will be from origins outside CONUS to destinations either within or outside CONUS, the contracting officer shall use the appropriate f.o.b. term and include evaluation-of-offers information. (j) (j) In furtherance of the Cargo Preference Act of1954 (46 U.S.C. 1241(b)), to encourage and foster the American Merchant Marine, the port of delivery of supplies originating outside the United States and shipped by ocean vessel shall be based on the availability of United States-flag vessels between the ports involved, unless the acquiring activity has given other specific instructions. (See subpart  47.5-Ocean Transportation by U.S.-Flag Vessels.) (k) (k) For application of the Fly America Act to the transportation of supplies and personnel when the Government is responsible for the transportation costs, see subpart  47.4-Air Transportation by U.S.-Flag Carriers. (l) (l) Military and civilian agencies shall obtain assistance from transportation offices in connection with all export shipments (see 47.105).
52.252-5 Authorized Deviations in Provisions. (a) (a) The use in this solicitation of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision. (b) (b) The use in this solicitation of any ______________ [insert regulation name](48 CFR Chapter______) provision with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.
52.243-7 Notification of Changes. (a) (a) Definitions. "Contracting Officer," as used in this clause, does not include any representative of the Contracting Officer. (b) (b) Notice. The primary purpose of this clause is to obtain prompt reporting of Government conduct that the Contractor considers to constitute a change to this contract. Except for changes identified as such in writing and signed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer in writing promptly, within ______ (to be negotiated) calendar days from the date that the Contractor identifies any Government conduct (including actions, inactions, and written or oral communications) that the Contractor regards as a change to the contract terms and conditions. On the basis of the most accurate information available to the Contractor, the notice shall state- (c) (c) Continued performance. Following submission of the notice required by paragraph (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall diligently continue performance of this contract to the maximum extent possible in accordance with its terms and conditions as construed by the Contractor, unless the notice reports a direction of the Contracting Officer or a communication from a SAR of the Contracting Officer, in either of which events the Contractor shall continue performance; provided, however, that if the Contractor regards the direction or communication as a change as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, notice shall be given in the manner provided. All directions, communications, interpretations, orders and similar actions of the SAR shall be reduced to writing promptly and copies furnished to the Contractor and to the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer shall promptly countermand any action which exceeds the authority of the SAR. (d) (d) Government response. The Contracting Officer shall promptly, within _____ (to be negotiated) calendar days after receipt of notice, respond to the notice in writing. In responding, the Contracting Officer shall either- (e) (e) Equitable adjustments.
49.505 Other termination clauses. (a) (a) Personal service contracts. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.249-12, Termination (Personal Services), in solicitations and contracts for personal services (see part  37). (b) (b) Excusable delays. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.249-14, Excusable Delays, in solicitations and contracts for supplies, services, construction, and research and development on a fee basis, when a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated. The contracting officer shall also insert the clause in time-and-material contracts, and labor-hour contracts. (c) (c) Communication service contracts. This regulation does not prescribe a clause for the cancellation or termination of orders under communication service contracts with common carriers because of special agency requirements that apply to these services. An appropriate clause, however, shall be prescribed at agency level, within those agencies contracting for these services.
5.404 Release of long-range acquisition estimates. No subsections found.
22.403-3 Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards. No subsections found.
27.406 Acquisition of data. No subsections found.
13.303-7 Completion of BPAs. No subsections found.
Subpart 43.2 - Change Orders No subsections found.
45.103 General. (a) (a) Agencies shall- (b) (b) Agencies will not generally require contractors to establish property management systems that are separate from a contractor’s established procedures, practices, and systems used to account for and manage contractor-owned property.
31.301 Purpose. No subsections found.
Subpart 5.2 - Synopses of Proposed Contract Actions No subsections found.
23.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
47.304-1 General. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall determine f.o.b. terms generally on the basis of overall costs, giving due consideration to the criteria given in 47.304. (b) (b) Solicitations shall specify whether offerors must submit offers f.o.b. origin, f.o.b. destination, or both; or whether offerors may choose the basis on which they make an offer. The contracting officer shall consider the most advantageous delivery point, such as- (c) (c) In determining whether f.o.b. origin or f.o.b. destination is more advantageous to the Government, the contracting officer shall consider the availability of lower freight rates (Government rate tenders) to the Government for f.o.b. origin acquisitions. F.o.b. origin contracts also present other desirable traffic management features, in that they- (d) (d) When destinations are tentative or unknown, the solicitation shall be f.o.b. origin only (see 47.305-5). (e) (e) When the size or quantity of supplies with confidential or higher security classification requires commercial transportation services, the contracting officer shall generally specify f.o.b. origin acquisitions. (f) (f) When acceptance must be at destination, solicitation shall be on an f.o.b. destination only basis. (g) (g) Following are examples of situations when solicitations shall normally be on an f.o.b. destination only basis because it is advantageous to the Government (see 47.305-4):
32.411 Agreement for special account at a financial institution. No subsections found.
52.214-30 [Reserved] No subsections found.
1.501-2 Opportunity for public comments. (a) (a) Views of agencies and nongovernmental parties or organizations will be considered in formulating acquisition policies and procedures. (b) (b) The opportunity to submit written comments on proposed significant revisions shall be provided by placing a notice in the Federal Register. Each of these notices shall include- (c) (c) A minimum of 30 days and, normally, at least 60 days will be given for the receipt of comments.
49.402 Termination of fixed-price contracts for default. No subsections found.
14.103 Policy. No subsections found.
5.503 Procedures. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Rates. Advertisements may be paid for at rates not over the commercial rates charged private individuals, with the usual discounts (44 U.S.C. 3703). (c) (c) Proof of advertising. Every invoice for advertising shall be accompanied by a copy of the advertisement or an affidavit of publication furnished by the publisher, radio or television station, or advertising agency concerned (44 U.S.C. 3703). Paying offices shall retain the proof of advertising until the Government Accountability Office settles the paying office’s account. (d) (d) Payment. Upon receipt of an invoice supported by proof of advertising, the contracting officer shall attach a copy of the written authority (see 5.502(a)) and submit the invoice for payment under agency procedures.
19.808 Contract negotiation. No subsections found.
43.205 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c) Insert the clause at 52.243-3, Changes-Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hours, in solicitations and contracts when a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract is contemplated. The contracting officer may vary the 30-day period in paragraph (c) of the clause according to agency procedures. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-4, Changes, in solicitations and contracts for- (e) (e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-5, Changes and Changed Conditions, in solicitations and contracts for construction, when the contract amount is not expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (f) (f) The contracting officer may insert a clause, substantially the same as the clause at 52.243-6, Change Order Accounting, in solicitations and contracts for supply and research and development contracts of significant technical complexity, if numerous changes are anticipated. The clause may be included in solicitations and contracts for construction if deemed appropriate by the contracting officer.
16.403-2 Fixed-price incentive (successive targets) contracts. (a) (a) Description. (b) (b) Application. A fixed-price incentive (successive targets) contract is appropriate when- (c) (c) Limitations. This contract type may be used only when- (d) (d) Contract schedule. The contracting officer shall specify in the contract schedule the initial target cost, initial target profit, and initial target price for each item subject to incentive price revision.
31.108 Contracts with nonprofit organizations. No subsections found.
16.702 Basic agreements. (a) (a) Description. A basic agreement is a written instrument of understanding, negotiated between an agency or contracting activity and a contractor, that (1) contains contract clauses applying to future contracts between the parties during its term and (2) contemplates separate future contracts that will incorporate by reference or attachment the required and applicable clauses agreed upon in the basic agreement. A basic agreement is not a contract. (b) (b) Application. A basic agreement should be used when a substantial number of separate contracts may be awarded to a contractor during a particular period and significant recurring negotiating problems have been experienced with the contractor. Basic agreements may be used with negotiated fixed-price or cost-reimbursement contracts. (c) (c) Limitations. A basic agreement shall not- (d) (d) Contracts incorporating basic agreements.
7.302 Policy. (a) (a) The Circular provides that it is the policy of the Government to- (b) (b) As provided in the Circular, agencies shall- (c) (c) When using sealed bidding in public-private competitions under OMB Circular A-76, contracting officers shall not hold discussions to correct deficiencies.
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
Subpart 42.16 - Small Business Contract Administration No subsections found.
35.017-2 Establishing or changing an FFRDC. (a) (a) Existing alternative sources for satisfying agency requirements cannot effectively meet the special research or development needs. (b) (b) The notices required for publication (see 5.205(b)) are placed as required. (c) (c) There is sufficient Government expertise available to adequately and objectively evaluate the work to be performed by the FFRDC. (d) (d) The Executive Office of the President, Office of Science and Technology Policy, Washington, DC 20506, is notified. (e) (e) Controls are established to ensure that the costs of the services being provided to the Government are reasonable. (f) (f) The basic purpose and mission of the FFRDC is stated clearly enough to enable differentiation between work which should be performed by the FFRDC and that which should be performed by non-FFRDC’s. (g) (g) A reasonable continuity in the level of support to the FFRDC is maintained, consistent with the agency’s need for the FFRDC and the terms of the sponsoring agreement. (h) (h) The FFRDC is operated, managed, or administered by an autonomous organization or as an identifiably separate operating unit of a parent organization, and is required to operate in the public interest, free from organizational conflict of interest, and to disclose its affairs (as an FFRDC) to the primary sponsor. (i) (i) Quantity production or manufacturing is not performed unless authorized by legislation. (j) (j) Approval is received from the head of the sponsoring agency.
31.205-8 Contributions or donations. No subsections found.
12.205 Offers. (a) (a) Where technical information is necessary for evaluation of offers, agencies should, as part of market research, review existing literature generally available in the industry to determine its adequacy for purposes of evaluation. If adequate, contracting officers shall request existing product or service literature from offerors of commercial products or commercial services in lieu of unique technical proposals. (b) (b) Contracting officers should allow offerors to propose multiple offers that will meet a Government need in response to solicitations for commercial products or commercial services. The contracting officer shall evaluate each offer separately. (c) (c) Consistent with the requirements at 5.203(b), the contracting officer may allow fewer than 30 days response time for receipt of offers for commercial products or commercial services, unless the acquisition is covered by the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement or a Free Trade Agreement (see 5.203(h)).
28.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
32.202-2 Types of payments for commercial product and commercial service purchases. No subsections found.
32.206 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) The contract shall contain the paragraph entitled "Payment" of the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services. If the contract will provide for contract financing, the contracting officer shall construct a solicitation provision and contract clause. This solicitation provision shall be constructed in accordance with 32.204 or 32.205. If the procedure at 32.205 is used, the solicitation provision at 52.232-31, invitation to Propose Financing Terms, shall be included. The contract clause shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of this subpart and any agency regulations. (b) (b) Each contract financing clause shall include: (c) (c) Computation of amounts, and contractor entitlement provisions. (d) (d) Instructions for multiple appropriations. If contract financing is to be computed for the contract as a whole, and if there is more than one appropriation account (or subaccount) funding payments under the contract, the contracting officer shall include, in the contract, instructions for distribution of financing payments to the respective funds accounts. Distribution instructions and contract liquidation instructions must be mutually consistent. (e) (e) Liquidation. Liquidation of contract financing payments shall be on the same basis as the computation of contract financing payments; that is, financing payments computed on a whole contract basis shall be liquidated on a whole contract basis; and a payment computed on a line item basis shall be liquidated against that line item. If liquidation is on a whole contract basis, the contracting officer shall use a uniform liquidation percentage as the liquidation method, unless the contracting officer obtains the concurrence of the cognizant payment office that the proposed liquidation provisions can be executed by that office, or unless agency regulations provide alternative liquidation methods. (f) (f) Prompt payment for commercial purchase payments. The provisions of subpart  32.9, Prompt Payment, apply to contract financing and invoice payments for commercial purchases in the same manner they apply to other than commercial purchases. The contracting officer is responsible for including in the contract all the information necessary to implement prompt payment. In particular, contracting officers must be careful to clearly differentiate in the contract between contract financing and invoice payments and between items having different prompt payment times. (g) (g) Installment payment financing for commercial products and commercial services. Contracting officers may insert the clause at 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Products and Commercial Services, in solicitations and contracts in lieu of constructing a specific clause in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, if the contract action qualifies under the criteria at 32.202-1(b) and installment payments for the item are either customary or are authorized in accordance with agency procedures.
31.205-13 Employee morale, health, welfare, food service, and dormitory costs and credits. (a) (a) Aggregate costs incurred on activities designed to improve working conditions, employer-employee relations, employee morale, and employee performance (less income generated by these activities) are allowable, subject to the limitations contained in this subsection. Some examples of allowable activities are- (b) (b) Costs of gifts are unallowable. (Gifts do not include awards for performance made pursuant to 31.205-6(f) or awards made in recognition of employee achievements pursuant to an established contractor plan or policy.) (c) (c) Costs of recreation are unallowable, except for the costs of employees’ participation in company sponsored sports teams or employee organizations designed to improve company loyalty, team work, or physical fitness. (d) (d) (e) (e) When the contractor has an arrangement authorizing an employee association to provide or operate a service, such as vending machines in the contractor’s plant, and retain the profits, such profits shall be treated in the same manner as if the contractor were providing the service (but see paragraph (f) of this subsection). (f) (f) Contributions by the contractor to an employee organization, including funds from vending machine receipts or similar sources, are allowable only to the extent that the contractor demonstrates that an equivalent amount of the costs incurred by the employee organization would be allowable if directly incurred by the contractor.
52.219-30 Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Women-Owned Small Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to- (c) (c) General. (d) (d) Joint venture. A joint venture may be considered a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program if— (e) (e) In a joint venture that complies with paragraph (d) of this clause, the WOSB party or parties to the joint venture shall perform at least 40 percent of the work performed by the joint venture. Work performed by the WOSB party or parties to the joint venture must be more than administrative functions.
22.1505 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of 22.1503, insert the provision at 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products, in all solicitations that are expected to exceed the micro-purchase threshold and are for the acquisition of end products (regardless of country of origin) of a type identified by country of origin on the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, except solicitations for commercial products or commercial services that include the provision at 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. The contracting officer must identify in paragraph (b) of the provision at 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products, or paragraph (i)(1) of the provision at 52.212-3, any applicable end products and countries of origin from the List. For solicitations estimated to equal or exceed $50,000, the contracting officer must exclude from the List in the solicitation end products from any countries identified at 22.1503(b), in accordance with the specified thresholds. (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.222-19, Child Labor-Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies, in all solicitations and contracts for the acquisition of supplies that are expected to exceed the micro-purchase thresholds.
52.247-45 F.o.b. Origin and/or F.o.b. Destination Evaluation. No subsections found.
42.503 Postaward conferences. No subsections found.
36.701 Standard and optional forms for use in contracting for construction or dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements. (a) (a) Standard Form 1442, Solicitation, Offer, and Award (Construction, Alteration, or Repair), shall be used to solicit and submit offers, and award construction or dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements contracts expected to exceed the simplified acquisition thresholds, and may be used for contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. In all sealed bid solicitations, or when the Government otherwise requires a noncancellable offer acceptance period, the contracting officer shall insert in the blank provided in Block 13D the number of calendar days that the offer must be available for acceptance after the date offers are due. (b) (b) Optional Form 347, Order for Supplies or Services, may be used for construction or dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements contracts that are at or below the simplified acquisition threshold; provided, that the contracting officer includes the clauses required (see subpart  36.5) in the simplified acquisitions (see part  13). (c) (c) Contracting officers may use Optional Form 1419, Abstract of Offers-Construction, and Optional Form 1419A, Abstract of Offers-Construction, Continuation Sheet, or the automated equivalent, to record offers submitted in response to a sealed bid solicitation (see 14.403) and may also use it to record offers submitted in response to negotiated solicitations.
52.244 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.222-28 [Reserved] No subsections found.
42.503-2 Postaward conference procedure. No subsections found.
53.227 [Reserved] No subsections found.
34.005-5 Full-scale development contracts. No subsections found.
35.011 Data. (a) (a) R&D contracts shall specify the technical data to be delivered under the contract, since the data clauses required by part  27 do not require the delivery of any such data. (b) (b) In planning a developmental program when subsequent production contracts are contemplated, consideration should be given to the need and time required to obtain a technical package (plans, drawings, specifications, and other descriptive information) that can be used to achieve competition in production contracts. In some situations, the developmental contractor may be in the best position to produce such a technical package.
52.225-8 Duty-Free Entry. (a) (a) Definition. "Customs territory of the United States" means the States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. (b) (b) Except as otherwise approved by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall not include in the contract price any amount for duties on supplies specifically identified in the Schedule to be accorded duty-free entry. (c) (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this clause or elsewhere in this contract, the following procedures apply to supplies not identified in the Schedule to be accorded duty-free entry: (d) (d) The Contractor is not required to provide the notification under paragraph (c) of this clause for purchases of foreign supplies if- (e) (e) The Contractor shall claim duty-free entry only for supplies to be delivered to the Government under this contract, either as end products or incorporated into end products, and shall pay duty on supplies, or any portion of them, other than scrap, salvage, or competitive sale authorized by the Contracting Officer, diverted to nongovernmental use. (f) (f) The Government will execute any required duty-free entry certificates for supplies to be accorded duty-free entry and will assist the Contractor in obtaining duty-free entry for these supplies. (g) (g) Shipping documents for supplies to be accorded duty-free entry shall consign the shipments to the contracting agency in care of the Contractor and shall include the- (h) (h) The Contractor shall instruct the foreign supplier to- (i) (i) The Contractor shall provide written notice to the cognizant contract administration office immediately after notification by the Contracting Officer that duty-free entry will be accorded foreign supplies or, for duty-free supplies identified in the Schedule, upon award by the Contractor to the overseas supplier. The notice shall identify the- (j) (j) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in any subcontract if-
52.227-1 Authorization and	Consent. (a) (a) The	Government authorizes and consents to all use and manufacture, in	performing this contract or any subcontract at any tier, of any	invention described in and covered by a United States patent- (b) (b) The Contractor shall include	the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (b), in all	subcontracts that are expected to exceed the simplified acquisition	threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101 on the date of subcontract	award. However, omission of this clause from any subcontract, including	those at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined	in FAR 2.101 on the date of subcontract	award, does not affect this authorization and consent.
22.1009-2 Attempt to identify possible places of performance. (a) (a) Locations of previous contractors and their competitors. (b) (b) Databases available via the Internet for lists of prospective offerors and contractors. (c) (c) Responses to a presolicitation notice (see 5.204).
34.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
26.300 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart implements Executive Order 12928 of September 16,1994, which promotes participation of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Minority Institutions (MIs) in Federal procurement. (b) (b) This subpart does not pertain to contracts performed entirely outside the United States and its outlying areas.
11.302 Contract clause. No subsections found.
36.508 Other contracts. No subsections found.
Subpart 15.5 - Preaward, Award, and Postaward Notifications, Protests, and Mistakes No subsections found.
15.406-1 Prenegotiation objectives. (a) (a) The prenegotiation objectives establish the Government’s initial negotiation position. They assist in the contracting officer’s determination of fair and reasonable price. They should be based on the results of the contracting officer’s analysis of the offeror’s proposal, taking into consideration all pertinent information including field pricing assistance, audit reports and technical analysis, fact-finding results, independent Government cost estimates and price histories. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall establish prenegotiation objectives before the negotiation of any pricing action. The scope and depth of the analysis supporting the objectives should be directly related to the dollar value, importance, and complexity of the pricing action. When cost analysis is required, the contracting officer shall document the pertinent issues to be negotiated, the cost objectives, and a profit or fee objective.
42.705-3 Educational institutions. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Predetermined final indirect cost rates.
19.304 Small disadvantaged business status. (a) (a) The contracting officer may accept an offeror’s representation that it is a small disadvantaged business concern (SDB) concern. (b) (b) The provision at 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations, or  52.212-3(c)(5), Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, is used to collect SDB data. (c) (c) A representation of SDB status on a Federal prime contract will be deemed a misrepresentation of SDB status if the firm does not meet the requirements of 13 CFR 124.1001. (d) (d)Any person or entity that misrepresents a firm's status as an SDB concern in order to obtain a contracting opportunity in accordance with section 8(d) of the Small Business Act, ( 15 U.S.C. 637(d)) will be subject to the penalties imposed by section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, (15 U.S.C. 645(d)), as well as any other penalty authorized by law.
8.704 Purchase priorities. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. chapter 85 requires the Government to purchase supplies or services on the Procurement List, at prices established by the Committee, from AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies if they are available within the period required. When identical supplies or services are on the Procurement List and the Schedule of Products issued by Federal Prison Industries, Inc., ordering offices shall purchase supplies and services in the following priorities: (b) (b) No other provision of the FAR shall be construed as permitting an exception to the mandatory purchase of items on the Procurement List. (c) (c) The Procurement List identifies those supplies for which the ordering office must obtain a formal waiver (8.604) from Federal Prison Industries, Inc., before making any purchases from AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies.
52.236-3 Site Investigation and Conditions Affecting the Work. (a) (a) The Contractor acknowledges that it has taken steps reasonably necessary to ascertain the nature and location of the work, and that it has investigated and satisfied itself as to the general and local conditions which can affect the work or its cost, including but not limited to (1) conditions bearing upon transportation, disposal, handling, and storage of materials; (2) the availability of labor, water, electric power, and roads; (3) uncertainties of weather, river stages, tides, or similar physical conditions at the site; (4) the conformation and conditions of the ground; and (5) the character of equipment and facilities needed preliminary to and during work performance. The Contractor also acknowledges that it has satisfied itself as to the character, quality, and quantity of surface and subsurface materials or obstacles to be encountered insofar as this information is reasonably ascertainable from an inspection of the site, including all exploratory work done by the Government, as well as from the drawings and specifications made a part of this contract. Any failure of the Contractor to take the actions described and acknowledged in this paragraph will not relieve the Contractor from responsibility for estimating properly the difficulty and cost of successfully performing the work, or for proceeding to successfully perform the work without additional expense to the Government. (b) (b) The Government assumes no responsibility for any conclusions or interpretations made by the Contractor based on the information made available by the Government. Nor does the Government assume responsibility for any understanding reached or representation made concerning conditions which can affect the work by any of its officers or agents before the execution of this contract, unless that understanding or representation is expressly stated in this contract.
52.236-16 Quantity Surveys. (a) (a) Quantity surveys shall be conducted, and the data derived from these surveys shall be used in computing the quantities of work performed and the actual construction completed and in place. (b) (b) The Government shall conduct the original and final surveys and make the computations based on them. The Contractor shall conduct the surveys for any periods for which progress payments are requested and shall make the computations based on these surveys. All surveys conducted by the Contractor shall be conducted under the direction of a representative of the Contracting Officer, unless the Contracting Officer waives this requirement in a specific instance. (c) (c) Promptly upon completing a survey, the Contractor shall furnish the originals of all field notes and all other records relating to the survey or to the layout of the work to the Contracting Officer, who shall use them as necessary to determine the amount of progress payments. The Contractor shall retain copies of all such material furnished to the Contracting Officer.
Subpart 37.1 - Service Contracts-General No subsections found.
22.607 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.101-2 Contract pricing and administration. (a) (a) Contractor labor policies and compensation practices, whether or not included in labor-management agreements, are not acceptable bases for allowing costs in cost-reimbursement contracts or for recognition of costs in pricing fixed-price contracts if they result in unreasonable costs to the Government. For a discussion of allowable costs resulting from labor-management agreements, see 31.205-6(b). (b) (b) Labor disputes may cause work stoppages that delay the performance of Government contracts. Contracting officers shall impress upon contractors that each contractor shall be held accountable for reasonably avoidable delays. Standard contract clauses dealing with default, excusable delays, etc., do not relieve contractors or subcontractors from the responsibility for delays that are within the contractors’ or their subcontractors’ control. A delay caused by a strike that the contractor or subcontractor could not reasonably prevent can be excused; however, it cannot be excused beyond the point at which a reasonably diligent contractor or subcontractor could have acted to end the strike by actions such as- (c) (c) Strikes normally result in changing patterns of cost incurrence and therefore may have an impact on the allowability of costs for cost-reimbursement contracts or for recognition of costs in pricing fixed-price contracts. Certain costs may increase because of strikes; e.g., guard services and attorney’s fees. Other costs incurred during a strike may not fluctuate (e.g.,"fixed costs" such as rent and depreciation), but because of reduced production, their proportion of the unit cost of items produced increases. All costs incurred during strikes shall be carefully examined to ensure recognition of only those costs necessary for performing the contract in accordance with the Government’s essential interest. (d) (d) If, during a labor dispute, the inspectors’ safety is not endangered, the normal functions of inspection at the plant of a Government contractor shall be continued without regard to the existence of a labor dispute, strike, or picket line.
52.222-15 Certification of Eligibility. (a) (a) By entering into this contract, the Contractor certifies that neither it nor any person or firm who has an interest in the Contractor's firm is a person or firm ineligible to be awarded Government contracts by virtue of 40 U.S.C. 3144(b)(2) or 29 CFR 5.12(a)(1). (b) (b) No part of this contract shall be subcontracted to any person or firm ineligible for award of a Government contract by virtue of 40 U.S.C. 3144(b)(2) or 29 CFR 5.12(a)(1). (c) (c) The penalty for making false statements is prescribed in the U.S. Criminal Code, 18 U.S.C. 1001.
3.1100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.214-7 Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids. (a) (a) Bidders are responsible for submitting bids, and any modifications or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the invitation for bids (IFB) by the time specified in the IFB. If no time is specified in the IFB, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that bids are due. (b) (b) (c) (c) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the bid wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (d) (d) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that bids cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of bids by the exact time specified in the IFB and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the IFB, the time specified for receipt of bids will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (e) (e) Bids may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of bids. If the IFB authorizes facsimile bids, bids may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of bids, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.214-31, Facsimile Bids. A bid may be withdrawn in person by a bidder or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of bids, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the bid.
Subpart 4.21  Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment No subsections found.
15.605 Content of unsolicited proposals. (a) (a) Basic information including- (b) (b) Technical information including- (c) (c) Supporting information including-
Subpart 26.3 - Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions No subsections found.
52.102 Incorporating provisions and clauses. (a) (a) Provisions and clauses should be incorporated by reference to the maximum practical extent, rather than being incorporated in full text, even if they- (b) (b) Except for provisions and clauses prescribed in 52.107, any provision or clause that can be accessed electronically by the offeror or prospective contractor may be incorporated by reference in solicitations and/or contracts. However, the contracting officer, upon request, shall provide the full text of any provision or clause incorporated by reference. (c) (c) Agency approved provisions and clauses prescribed in agency acquisition regulations, and FAR provisions and clauses not authorized to be incorporated by reference as shown in the matrix at https://www.acquisition.gov/​smart-matrix, need not be incorporated in full text, provided the contracting officer includes in the solicitation and contract a statement that— (d) (d) An agency may develop a group listing of provisions and clauses that apply to a specific category of contracts. An agency group listing may be incorporated by reference in solicitations and/or contracts in lieu of citing the provisions and clauses individually, provided the group listing is made available electronically to offerors and prospective contractors. (e) (e) A provision or clause that is not available electronically to offerors and prospective contractors shall be incorporated in solicitations and/or contracts in full text if it is- (f) (f) Provisions or clauses may not be incorporated by reference by being listed in the-
32.703-2 Contracts conditioned upon availability of funds. (a) (a) Fiscal year contracts. The contracting officer may initiate a contract action properly chargeable to funds of the new fiscal year before these funds are available, provided that the contract includes the clause at 52.232-18, Availability of Funds (see 32.706-1(a)). This authority may be used only for operation and maintenance and continuing services (e.g., rentals, utilities, and supply items not financed by stock funds)- (b) (b) Indefinite-quantity or requirements contracts. A one-year indefinite-quantity or requirements contract for services that is funded by annual appropriations may extend beyond the fiscal year in which it begins; provided, that- (c) (c) Acceptance of supplies or services. The Government shall not accept supplies or services under a contract conditioned upon the availability of funds until the contracting officer has given the contractor notice, to be confirmed in writing, that funds are available.
25.106 Determining reasonableness of cost. (a) (a) The contracting officer- (b) (b) For end products that are not critical items and do not contain critical components. (c) (c) For end products that are critical items or contain critical components.
19.705-6 Postaward responsibilities of the contracting officer. (a) (a) Notify the SBA of the award by sending a copy of the award document to the Area Director, Office of Government Contracting, in the SBA area office where the contract will be performed. (b) (b) Forward a copy of each commercial plan and any associated approvals to the Area Director, Office of Government Contracting, in the SBA area office where the contractor’s headquarters is located. (c) (c) Give to the SBA procurement center representative (or, if a procurement center representative is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) a copy of- (d) (d) Notify the SBA procurement center representative (or, if a procurement center representative is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) of the opportunity to review subcontracting plans in connection with contract modifications. (e) (e) Forward a copy of each plan, or a determination that there is no requirement for a subcontracting plan, to the cognizant contract administration office. (f) (f) Monitor the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan, to include the following: (g) (g) Evaluate the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan, to include the following: (h) (h) Initiate action to assess liquidated damages in accordance with 19.705-7 upon a recommendation by the administrative contracting officer, if one is assigned, or receipt of other reliable evidence to indicate that assessing liquidated damages is warranted. (i) (i) Take action to enforce the terms of the contract upon receipt of a notice from the contract administration office under 19.706(f). (j) (j) Acknowledge receipt of or reject the ISR and the SSR in the eSRS. Acknowledging receipt does not mean acceptance or approval of the report. The report shall be rejected if it is not adequately completed, for instance, if there are errors, omissions, or incomplete data. Failure to meet the goals of the subcontracting plan is not a valid reason for rejecting the report.
32.802 Conditions. (a) (a) The contract specifies payments aggregating $1,000 or more. (b) (b) The assignment is made to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency. (c) (c) The contract does not prohibit the assignment. (d) (d) Unless otherwise expressly permitted in the contract, the assignment- (e) (e) The assignee sends a written notice of assignment together with a true copy of the assignment instrument to the-
47.403 Guidelines for implementation of the Fly America Act. No subsections found.
47.305-12 Delivery of Government-furnished property. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall describe explosive and dangerous material according to-
52.204-14 Service Contract Reporting Requirements. (a) (a) Definition. (b) (b) The Contractor shall report, in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this clause, annually by October 31, for services performed under this contract during the preceding Government fiscal year (October 1-September 30). (c) (c) The Contractor shall report the following information: (d) (d) The information required	in paragraph (c) of this clause shall be submitted via the internet at www.sam.gov. (See SAM User Guide). If the	Contractor fails to submit the report in a timely manner, the contracting	officer will exercise appropriate contractual remedies. In addition, the	Contracting Officer will make the Contractor’s failure to comply with the	reporting requirements a part of the Contractor’s performance information	under FAR subpart  42.15. (e) (e) Agencies will review Contractor reported information for reasonableness and consistency with available contract information. In the event the agency believes that revisions to the Contractor reported information are warranted, the agency will notify the Contractor no later than November 15. By November 30, the Contractor shall revise the report, or document its rationale for the agency. (f) (f)
40.202-5 Exceptions. (a) (a) Wildfire management operations and search and rescue operations exception. The prohibitions in section 40.202 do not apply to an appropriate Federal agency to the extent that an authorized official at the agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, determines that the procurement or operation is necessary for the purposes of supporting the full range of wildfire management operations or search and rescue operations. (b) (b) Intelligence activities exception. The prohibitions of 40.202 do not apply to any activity subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.), any authorized intelligence activities of the United States, or any activity or procurement that supports an authorized intelligence activity. (c) (c) Tribal law enforcement or emergency service agency exception. The prohibitions in 40.202 do not apply to Tribal law enforcement or Tribal emergency service agencies to the extent that an authorized official at the agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, determines that the procurement or operation is necessary for the purposes of supporting the full range of law enforcement operations or search and rescue operations on Indian lands.
3.101-2 Solicitation and acceptance of gratuities by Government personnel. No subsections found.
47.305-9 Commodity description and freight classification. (a) (a) Generally, the freight rate for supplies is based on the rating applicable to the freight classification description published in the National Motor Freight Classification (NMFC) (for carriers) and the Uniform Freight Classification (UFC) (for rail) filed with Federal and State regulatory bodies. Therefore, the contracting officer shall show in the solicitation a complete description of the commodity to be acquired and of packing requirements to determine proper transportation charges for the evaluation of offers. If supplies cannot be properly classified through reference to freight classification tariffs or if doubt exists, the contracting officer shall obtain the applicable freight classification from the transportation office. In some situations prospective contractors have established an official freight classification description that can be applied. (b) (b) (c) (c) The solicitation shall contain adequate descriptions of explosives and other dangerous supplies according to- (d) (d) The contracting officer	shall furnish the freight classification information developed in 47.305-9(a), (b), and (c) of this section	to the contract administration office.
43.104 Notification of contract changes. (a) (a) When a contractor considers that the Government has effected or may effect a change in the contract that has not been identified as such in writing and signed by the contracting officer, it is necessary that the contractor notify the Government in writing as soon as possible. This will permit the Government to evaluate the alleged change and- (b) (b) The clause at 52.243-7, Notification of Changes, which is prescribed in 43.107-
16.403 Fixed-price incentive contracts. (a) (a) Description. A fixed-price incentive contract is a fixed-price contract that provides for adjusting profit and establishing the final contract price by application of a formula based on the relationship of total final negotiated cost to total target cost. The final price is subject to a price ceiling, negotiated at the outset. The two forms of fixed-price incentive contracts, firm target and successive targets, are further described in 16.403-1 and 16.403-2 below. (b) (b) Application. A fixed-price incentive contract is appropriate when- (c) (c) Billing prices. In fixed-price incentive contracts, billing prices are established as an interim basis for payment. These billing prices may be adjusted, within the ceiling limits, upon request of either party to the contract, when it becomes apparent that final negotiated cost will be substantially different from the target cost.
23.200 Scope. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for using an energy savings performance contract to obtain energy-efficient technologies at Government facilities without Government capital expense. (b) (b)This subpart applies to acquisitions in the United States and its outlying areas. Agencies conducting acquisitions outside of these areas must use their best efforts to comply with this subpart.
Subpart 6.3 - Other Than Full and Open Competition No subsections found.
22.1013 Review of wage determination. (a) (a) Based on incumbent collective bargaining agreement. (1)If wages, fringe benefits, or periodic increases provided for in a collective bargaining agreement vary substantially from those prevailing for similar services in the locality, the contracting officer shall immediately contact the agency labor advisor to consider instituting the procedures in 22.1021. (b) (b) Based on other than incumbent collective bargaining agreement. Upon receiving a wage determination not predicated upon a collective bargaining agreement, the contracting officer shall ascertain-
31.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) The pricing of contracts, subcontracts, and modifications to contracts and subcontracts whenever cost analysis is performed (see 15.404-1(c)); and (b) (b) The determination, negotiation, or allowance of costs when required by a contract clause.
52.250-3 SAFETY Act Block Designation/Certification. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision- (b) (b) The Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (SAFETY Act), 6 U.S.C. 441-444, creates certain liability limitations for claims arising out of, relating to, or resulting from an act of terrorism where QATTs have been deployed. It also confers other important benefits. SAFETY Act designation and SAFETY Act certification are designed to support effective technologies aimed at preventing, detecting, identifying, or deterring acts of terrorism, or limiting the harm that such acts might otherwise cause, and which also meet other prescribed criteria. For some classes of technologies, DHS may issue a block designation/certification in order to lessen the burdens for filing for SAFETY Act designation or SAFETY Act certifications by not requiring applicants to provide certain information otherwise required and in order to offer expedited review of any application submitted pursuant to a block designation/certification. Block designations/certifications will be issued only for technologies that rely on established performance standards or defined technical characteristics. (c) (c) (d) (d) All determinations by DHS are based on factors set forth in the SAFETY Act and its implementing regulations. A determination by DHS to issue a SAFETY Act designation, or not to issue a SAFETY Act designation for a particular technology as a QATT is not a determination that the technology meets, or fails to meet, the requirements of any solicitation issued by any Federal, State, local or tribal governments. Determinations by DHS with respect to whether to issue a SAFETY Act designation for technologies submitted for DHS review are based on the factors identified in 6 CFR 25.4(b). (e) (e) Neither SAFETY Act designation nor certification is in any way a requirement of this action. Whether to seek the benefits of the SAFETY Act for a proposed product or service is entirely up to the offeror. Additional information about the SAFETY Act and this block designation/certification may be found at the SAFETY Act website at http://www.SAFETYAct.gov or requests may be mailed to: (f) (f) Proposals in which pricing or any other terms or conditions are offered contingent upon SAFETY Act designation or SAFETY Act certification of the proposed product(s) or service(s) will not be considered for award.
Subpart 22.11 - Professional Employee Compensation No subsections found.
22.1003-6 Repair distinguished	from remanufacturing of equipment. (a) (a) Contracts principally for remanufacturing	of equipment which is so extensive as to be equivalent to manufacturing	are subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 65, rather than to the Service	Contract Labor Standards statute. Remanufacturing shall be deemed	to be manufacturing when the criteria in either paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2)	of this section are met. (b) (b) Remanufacturing	does not include the repair of damaged or broken equipment which	does not require a complete teardown, overhaul, and rebuild as described	in subparagraphs(a)(1) and (a)(2) of this subsection, or the periodic	and routine maintenance, preservation, care, adjustment, upkeep,	or servicing of equipment to keep it in usable, serviceable, working order.	Such contracts typically are billed on an hourly rate (labor plus	materials and parts) basis. Any contract principally for this type	of work is subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute.	Examples of such work include the following:
52.241-1 Electric Service Territory Compliance Representation. (a) (a) Section 8093 of Public Law100-202 generally requires purchases of electricity by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States to be consistent with State law governing the provision of electric utility service, including State utility commission rulings and electric utility franchises or service territories established pursuant to State statute, State regulation, or State-approved territorial agreements. (b) (b) By signing this offer, the offeror represents that this offer to sell electricity is consistent with Section 8093 of Public Law100-202. (c) (c) Upon request of the Contracting Officer, the offeror shall submit supporting legal and factual rationale for this representation.
53.205-1 Paid advertisements. No subsections found.
52.204-29 Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision, Covered article, FASCSA order, Intelligence community, National security system, Reasonable inquiry, Sensitive compartmented information, Sensitive compartmented information system, and Source have the meaning provided in the clause 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition. (b) (b) Prohibition. Contractors are prohibited from providing or using as part of the performance of the contract any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the prohibition is set out in an applicable Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act (FASCSA) order, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of FAR 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition. (c) (c) Procedures. (d) (d) Representation. By submission of this offer, the offeror represents that it has conducted a reasonable inquiry, and that the offeror does not propose to provide or use in response to this solicitation any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the covered article or the source is prohibited by an applicable FASCSA order in effect on the date the solicitation was issued, except as waived by the solicitation, or as disclosed in paragraph (e). (e) (e) Disclosures. The purpose for this disclosure is so the Government may decide whether to issue a waiver. For any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, if the covered article or the source is subject to an applicable FASCSA order, and the Offeror is unable to represent compliance, then the Offeror shall provide the following information as part of the offer: (f) (f) Executive agency review of disclosures. The contracting officer will review disclosures provided in paragraph (e) to determine if any waiver may be sought. A contracting officer may choose not to pursue a waiver for covered articles or sources otherwise subject to a FASCSA order and may instead make an award to an offeror that does not require a waiver.
14.202 General rules for solicitation of bids. No subsections found.
28.203-3 Release of security interest. (a) (a)After consultation with legal counsel, the contracting officer shall release the security interest on the individual surety's assets using the Optional Form 91, Release of Personal Property from Escrow, or a similar release as soon as possible consistent with the conditions in subparagraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. A surety's assets pledged in support of a payment bond may be released to a subcontractor or supplier upon Government receipt of a Federal district court judgment, or a sworn statement by the subcontractor or supplier that the claim is correct along with a notarized authorization of the release by the surety stating that it approves of such release. (b) (b)Upon written request by the individual surety, the contracting officer may release the security interest on the individual surety's assets in support of a bid guarantee based upon evidence that the offer supported by the individual surety will not result in contract award. (c) (c)Upon written request by the individual surety, the contracting officer may release a portion of the security interest on the individual surety's assets based upon substantial performance of the contractor's obligations under its performance bond. Release of the security interest in support of a payment bond must comply with the subparagraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. In making this determination, the contracting officer will give consideration as to whether the unreleased portion of the security is sufficient to cover the remaining contract obligations, including payments to subcontractors and other potential liabilities. The individual surety shall, as a condition of the partial release, furnish an affidavit agreeing that the release of such assets does not relieve the individual surety of its obligations under the bond(s).
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
4.804-1 Closeout by the office administering the contract. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, time standards for closing out contract files are as follows: (b) (b) When closing out the contract files at 4.804-1(a)(2), (3), and (4), the contracting officer shall use the closeout procedures at 4.804-5. However, these closeout actions may be modified to reflect the extent of administration that has been performed. Quick closeout procedures (see 42.708) should be used, when appropriate, to reduce administrative costs and to enable deobligation of excess funds. (c) (c) A contract file shall not be closed if-
Subpart 40.3 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
45.202 Evaluation procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall consider any potentially unfair competitive advantage that may result from an offeror or contractor possessing Government property. This shall be done by adjusting the offers by applying, for evaluation purposes only, a rental equivalent evaluation factor as specified in FAR 52.245-9. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall ensure the offeror’s property management plans, methods, practices, or procedures for accounting for property are consistent with the requirements of the solicitation.
4.801 General. (a) (a) The head of each office performing contracting, contract administration, or paying functions shall establish files containing the records of all contractual actions. (b) (b) The documentation in the files (see 4.803) shall be sufficient to constitute a complete history of the transaction for the purpose of- (c) (c) The files to be established include-
9.303 Use. (a) (a) The contractor has not previously furnished the product to the Government; (b) (b) The contractor previously furnished the product to the Government, but- (c) (c) The product is described by a performance specification; or (d) (d) It is essential to have an approved first article to serve as a manufacturing standard.
Subpart 51.1 - Contractor Use of Government Supply Sources No subsections found.
37.115-3 Solicitation provision. No subsections found.
52.217-6 Option for Increased Quantity. No subsections found.
Subpart 49.6 - Contract Termination Forms and Formats No subsections found.
15.504 Award to successful offeror. (a) (a) If the award document includes information that is different than the latest signed proposal, as amended by the offeror’s written correspondence, both the offeror and the contracting officer shall sign the contract award. (b) (b) When an award is made to an offeror for less than all of the items that may be awarded and additional items are being withheld for subsequent award, each notice shall state that the Government may make subsequent awards on those additional items within the proposal acceptance period. (c) (c) If the Optional Form (OF) 307, Contract Award, Standard Form (SF) 26, Award/Contract, or SF 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award, is not used to award the contract, the first page of the award document shall contain the Government’s acceptance statement from Block 15 of that form, exclusive of the Item 3 reference language, and shall contain the contracting officer’s name, signature, and date. In addition, if the award document includes information that is different than the signed proposal, as amended by the offeror’s written correspondence, the first page shall include the contractor’s agreement statement from Block14 of the OF 307 and the signature of the contractor’s authorized representative.
52.203 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 25.2 - Buy American-Construction Materials No subsections found.
52.223-22 Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals-Representation. (a) (a) This representation shall be completed if the Offeror received $7.5 million or more in Federal contract awards in the prior Federal fiscal year. The representation is optional if the Offeror received less than $7.5 million in Federal contract awards in the prior Federal fiscal year. (b) (b) Representation. [Offeror is to check applicable blocks in paragraphs (1) and (2).] (c) (c) If the Offeror checked "does" in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this provision, respectively, the Offeror shall provide the publicly accessible website(s) where greenhouse gas emissions and/or reduction goals are reported:________________.
34.201 Policy. (a) (a) An Earned Value Management System (EVMS) is required for major acquisitions for development, in accordance with OMB Circular A-11. The Government may also require an EVMS for other acquisitions, in accordance with agency procedures. (b) (b) If the offeror proposes to use a system that has not been determined to be in compliance with the Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748 (EIA-748), the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with these EVMS standards. Offerors shall not be eliminated from consideration for contract award because they do not have an EVMS that complies with these standards. (c) (c) As a minimum, contracting officers shall require contractors to submit EVMS monthly reports for those contracts for which an EVMS applies. (d) (d) EVMS requirements will be applied to subcontractors using the same rules as applied to the prime contractor. (e) (e) When an offeror is required to provide an EVMS plan as part of its proposal, the contracting officer will determine the adequacy of the proposed EVMS plan prior to contract award.
23.108-3 Products and services that are subject to EPA Recommendations of Specifications, Standards, and Ecolabels. (a) (a) Program. The EPA Environmentally Preferable Purchasing (EPP) Program helps Federal agencies identify and procure environmentally preferable products and services to meet zero emissions and other sustainable procurement goals by providing Recommendations of Specifications, Standards, and Ecolabels. The EPP recommendations give preference to multi-attribute or life-cycle based standards and ecolabels that address key environmental and human health impact areas and where product conformance is determined by a competent third-party certification body. (b) (b) Resource. For additional information on EPA Recommendations of Specifications, Standards, and Ecolabels, see https://www.epa.gov/​greenerproducts/​recommendations-specifications-standards-and-ecolabels-federal-purchasing.
Subpart 16.4 - Incentive Contracts No subsections found.
36.609 Contract clauses. No subsections found.
52.209-14 Reserve Officer Training Corps and Military Recruiting on Campus. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Limitation on contract award. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, an institution of higher education is ineligible for contract award if the Secretary of Defense determines that the institution has a policy or practice (regardless of when implemented) that prohibits or in effect prevents— (c) (c) Exception. The limitation in paragraph (b) of this clause does not apply to an institution of higher education if the Secretary of Defense determines that— (d) (d) Notwithstanding any other clause of this contract, if the Secretary of Defense determines that the institution has violated the contract in paragraph (b) of this clause—
8.405 Ordering procedures for Federal Supply Schedules. No subsections found.
52.232-31 Invitation to Propose Financing Terms. (a) (a) The offeror is invited to propose terms under which the Government shall make contract financing payments during contract performance. The financing terms proposed by the offeror shall be a factor in the evaluation of the offeror’s proposal. The financing terms of the successful offeror and the clause, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and Commercial Services, at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.232-29, shall be incorporated in any resulting contract. (b) (b) The offeror agrees that in the event of any conflict between the terms proposed by the offeror and the terms in the clause at FAR 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and Commercial Services, the terms of the clause at FAR 52.232-29 shall govern. (c) (c) Because of statutory limitations (10 U.S.C. 3805 and 41 U.S.C. 4505), the offeror’s proposed financing shall not be acceptable if it does not conform to the following limitations: (d) (d) The offeror’s proposal of financing terms shall include the following: (e) (e) The offeror’s proposed prices and financing terms shall be evaluated to determine the cost to the United States of the proposal using the interest rate and delivery schedule specified elsewhere in this solicitation.
Part 27 - Patents, Data, and Copyrights No subsections found.
52.242-12 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.114 Contracting with the Small Business Administration (The 8(a) Program). No subsections found.
52.222-52 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain Services-Certification. (a) (a) The offeror shall check the following certification: (b) (b) Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services. If the offeror certifies to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this provision, and the Contracting Officer determines in accordance with FAR 22.1003-4(d)(3) that the Service Contract Labor Standards statute- (c) (c) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this provision- (d) (d) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror, if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (a) of this provision or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (c) of this provision.
46.305 Cost-reimbursement service contracts. No subsections found.
49.114 Unsettled contract changes. (a) (a) Before settlement of a completely terminated contract, the TCO shall obtain from the contracting office a list of all related unsettled contract changes. The TCO shall settle, as part of final settlement, all unsettled contract changes after obtaining the recommendations of the contracting office concerning the changes. (b) (b) When the contract has been partially terminated, any outstanding unsettled contract changes will usually be handled by the contracting officer. However, the contracting officer may delegate this function to the TCO.
28.301 Policy. (a) (a) (b) (b) Contractors, whether or not their contracts are subject to CAS 416, are required by law and this regulation to provide insurance for certain types of perils (e.g., workers’ compensation). Insurance is mandatory also when commingling of property, type of operation, circumstances of ownership, or condition of the contract make it necessary for the protection of the Government. The minimum amounts of insurance required by this regulation (see 28.307-2) may be reduced when a contract is to be performed outside the United States and its outlying areas. When more than one agency is involved, the agency responsible for review and approval of a contractor’s insurance program shall coordinate with other interested agencies before acting on significant insurance matters. (c) (c) Contractors awarded nonpersonal services contracts for health care services are required to maintain medical liability insurance and indemnify the Government for liability producing acts or omissions by the contractor, its employees and agents (see 37.400).
25.1101 Acquisition of supplies. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) Insert the provision at 52.225-7, Waiver of Buy American Statute for Civil Aircraft and Related Articles, in solicitations for civil aircraft and related articles (see 25.407), if the acquisition value is less than $174,000. (e) (e) Insert the clause at 52.225-8, Duty-Free Entry, in solicitations and contracts for supplies that may be imported into the United States and for which duty-free entry may be obtained in accordance with 25.903(a), if the value of the acquisition- (f) (f) Insert the provision at 52.225-18, Place of Manufacture, in solicitations that are predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products (i.e., the estimated value of the manufactured end products exceeds the estimated value of other items to be acquired as a result of the solicitation).
32.107 Need for contract financing not a deterrent. (a) (a) If the contractor or offeror meets the standards prescribed for responsible prospective contractors at 9.104, the contracting officer shall not treat the contractor’s need for contract financing as a handicap for a contract award; e.g., as a responsibility factor or evaluation criterion. (b) (b) The contractor should not be disqualified from contract financing solely because the contractor failed to indicate a need for contract financing before the contract was awarded.
42.602 Assignment and location. (a) (a) A CACO may be assigned only when (1) the contractor has at least two locations with resident ACO’s or (2) the need for a CACO is approved by the agency head or designee (for this purpose, a nonresident ACO will be considered as resident if at least 75 percent of the ACO’s effort is devoted to a single contractor). One of the resident ACO’s may be designated to perform the CACO functions, or a full-time CACO may be assigned. In determining the location of the CACO, the responsible agency shall take into account such factors as the location(s) of the corporate records, corporate office, major plant, cognizant government auditor, and overall cost effectiveness. (b) (b) A decision to initiate or discontinue a CACO assignment should be based on such factors as the- (c) (c) Responsibility for assigning a CACO shall be determined as follows: (d) (d) The directory of contract administration services components referenced in 42.203 includes a listing of CACO’s and the contractors for which they are assigned responsibility.
22.1604 Compliance evaluation and complaint investigations and sanctions for violations. (a) (a) The Secretary may conduct compliance evaluations or investigate complaints of any contractor or subcontractor to determine if any of the requirements of the clause at 52.222-40 have been violated. (b) (b) Contracting departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Secretary and provide such information and assistance as the Secretary may require in the performance of the Secretary’s functions. (c) (c) If the Secretary determines that there has been a violation, the Secretary may take such actions as set forth in 29 CFR 471.14. (d) (d) The Secretary may not terminate or suspend a contract or suspend or debar a contractor if the agency head has provided written objections, which must include a statement of reasons for the objection and a finding that the contractor’s performance is essential to the agency’s mission, and continues to object to the imposition of such sanctions and penalties. Procedures for enforcement by the Secretary are set out in 29 CFR 471.10 through 29 CFR 471.16.
1.603-4 Termination. No subsections found.
16.207-2 Application. No subsections found.
25.302-6 Contract clause. (a) (a) Use the clause at 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States, in solicitations and contracts for performance outside the United States in an area of- (b) (b) The clause is not required to be used for-
45.605 Inventory disposal reports. No subsections found.
14.402-2 Classified bids. No subsections found.
9.105-2 Determinations and documentation. (a) (a) Determinations. (b) (b) Support documentation.
1.702 General. (a) (a) A D&F shall ordinarily be for an individual contract action. Unless otherwise prohibited, class D&F’s may be executed for classes of contract actions (see 1.703). The approval granted by a D&F is restricted to the proposed contract action(s) reasonably described in that D&F. D&F’s may provide for a reasonable degree of flexibility. Furthermore, in their application, reasonable variations in estimated quantities or prices are permitted, unless the D&F specifies otherwise. (b) (b) When an option is anticipated, the D&F shall state the approximate quantity to be awarded initially and the extent of the increase to be permitted by the option.
32.501-4 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.404-5 Expiration of project wage determinations. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall make every effort to ensure that contract award is made before expiration of the project wage determination included in the solicitation. (b) (b) The following procedure applies when contracting by sealed bidding: (c) (c) The following procedure applies when contracting by negotiation:
27.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 39.2 - Information and Communication Technology No subsections found.
22.804 Affirmative action programs. No subsections found.
Subpart 44.4 - Subcontracts for Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
52.245-6 [Reserved] No subsections found.
53.102 Current editions. No subsections found.
5.205 Special situations. (a) (a) Research and development (R&D) advance notices. Contracting officers may transmit to the GPE advance notices of their interest in potential R&D programs whenever market research does not produce a sufficient number of concerns to obtain adequate competition. Advance notices must not be used where security considerations prohibit such publication. Advance notices will enable potential sources to learn of R&D programs and provide these sources with an opportunity to submit information which will permit evaluation of their capabilities. Contracting officers must consider potential sources which respond to advance notices for a subsequent solicitation. Advanced notices must be entitled "Research and Development Sources Sought" and include the name and telephone number of the contracting officer or other contracting activity official from whom technical details of the project can be obtained. This will enable sources to submit information for evaluation of their R&D capabilities. Contracting officers must synopsize (see 5.201) all subsequent solicitations for R&D contracts, including those resulting from a previously synopsized advance notice, unless one of the exceptions in 5.202 applies. (b) (b) Federally Funded Research and Development Centers. Before establishing a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) (see part  35) or before changing its basic purpose and mission, the sponsor must transmit at least three notices over a 90-day period to the GPE and the Federal Register, indicating the agency’s intention to sponsor an FFRDC or change the basic purpose and mission of an FFRDC. The notice must indicate the scope and nature of the effort to be performed and request comments. Notice is not required where the action is required by law. (c) (c) Special notices. Contracting officers may transmit to the GPE special notices of procurement matters such as business fairs, long-range procurement estimates, prebid or preproposal conferences, meetings, and the availability of draft solicitations or draft specifications for review. (d) (d) Architect-engineering services. Contracting officers must publish notices of intent to contract for architect-engineering services as follows: (e) (e) Public-private competitions under OMB Circular A-76. (f) (f) Section8(a) competitive acquisition. When a requirement is being considered for competitive acquisition limited to eligible 8(a) participants under subpart  19.8, the contracting officer must transmit a synopsis of the proposed contract action to the GPE. The synopsis may be transmitted to the GPE concurrent with submission of the agency offering (see 19.804-2) to the Small Business Administration (SBA). The synopsis should also include information- (g) (g) Notifications to the public regarding consolidation, bundling, or substantial bundling. (h) (h) Notice regarding timely definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts. When the contracting officer anticipates award of a contract to a small business pursuant to a solicitation for construction, the contracting officer must transmit in the solicitation notice on the GPE information regarding definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts (see 36.211).
49.304 Procedure for partial termination. No subsections found.
52.229-2 North Carolina State and Local Sales and Use Tax. (a) (a) "Materials," as used in this clause, means building materials, supplies, fixtures, and equipment that become a part of or are annexed to any building or structure erected, altered, or repaired under this contract. (b) (b) If this is a fixed-price contract, the contract price includes North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes to be paid on materials, notwithstanding any other provision of this contract. If this is a cost-reimbursement contract, any North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes paid by the Contractor on materials shall constitute an allowable cost under this contract. (c) (c) At the time specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the Contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer certified statements setting forth the cost of the materials purchased from each vendor and the amount of North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes paid. In the event the Contractor makes several purchases from the same vendor, the certified statement shall indicate the invoice numbers, the inclusive dates of the invoices, the total amount of the invoices, and the North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes paid. The statement shall also include the cost of any tangible personal property withdrawn from the Contractor’s warehouse stock and the amount of North Carolina State and local sales or use tax paid on this property by the Contractor. Any local sales or use taxes included in the Contractor’s statements must be shown separately from the State sales or use taxes. The Contractor shall furnish any additional information the Commissioner of Revenue of the State of North Carolina may require to substantiate a refund claim for sales or use taxes. The Contractor shall also obtain and furnish to the Contracting Officer similar certified statements by its subcontractors. (d) (d) If this contract is completed before the next October 1, the certified statements to be furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause shall be submitted within 60 days after completion. If this contract is not completed before the next October 1, the certified statements shall be submitted on or before November 30 of eachyear and shall cover taxes paid during the 12-month period that ended the preceding September 30. (e) (e) The certified statements to be furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause shall be in the following form:
52.232-15 Progress Payments Not Included. No subsections found.
47.303-7 F.o.b. destination, within consignee’s premises. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. destination, within consignee’s premises" means free of expense to the Government delivered and laid down within the doors of the consignee’s premises, including delivery to specific rooms within a building if so specified. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor’s responsibilities are the same as those listed in 47.303-6(b). (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-35, F.o.b. Destination, within Consignee’s Premises, when the delivery term is f.o.b. destination, within consignee’s premises.
14.201-4 PartIII-Documents, exhibits, and other attachments. No subsections found.
7.404 Contract clause. No subsections found.
32.1106 EFT mechanisms. (a) (a) Domestic EFT mechanisms. The EFT clauses at 52.232-33 and 52.232-34 are designed for use with the domestic United States banking system, using United States currency, and only the specified mechanisms (U.S. Automated Clearing House, and Fedwire Transfer System) of EFT. However, the head of an agency may authorize the use of any other EFT mechanism for domestic EFT with the concurrence of the office or agency responsible for making payments. (b) (b) Nondomestic EFT mechanisms and other than United States currency. The Government shall provide payment by other than EFT for payments received by or on behalf of the contractor outside the United States and Puerto Rico or for contracts paid in other than United States currency. However, the head of an agency may authorize appropriate use of EFT with the concurrence of the office or agency responsible for making payments if-
19.1500 General. (a) (a) Section 8(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(m)) created the Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program. (b) (b) The purpose of the WOSB Program is to ensure women-owned small business concerns have an equal opportunity to participate in Federal contracting and to assist agencies in achieving their women-owned small business participation goals (see 13 part CFR 127). (c) (c) An economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern and a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program are subcategories of “women-owned small business concern” as defined in section 2.101.
33.206 Initiation of a claim. (a) (a) Contractor claims shall be submitted, in writing, to the contracting officer for a decision within 6 years after accrual of a claim, unless the contracting parties agreed to a shorter time period. This 6-year time period does not apply to contracts awarded prior to October 1,1995. The contracting officer shall document the contract file with evidence of the date of receipt of any submission from the contractor deemed to be a claim by the contracting officer. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall issue a written decision on any Government claim initiated against a contractor within 6 years after accrual of the claim, unless the contracting parties agreed to a shorter time period. The 6-year period shall not apply to contracts awarded prior to October 1,1995, or to a Government claim based on a contractor claim involving fraud.
29.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
52.247-26 Government Direction and Marking. No subsections found.
52.227 [Reserved] No subsections found.
12.503 Applicability of certain laws to Executive agency contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services. (a) (a) The following laws are not applicable to Executive agency contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services: (b) (b) Certain requirements of the following laws are not applicable to executive agency contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services: (c) (c) The applicability of the following laws have been modified in regard to Executive agency contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services:
3.103 Independent pricing. No subsections found.
53.244 [Reserved] No subsections found.
44.201-2 Advance notification requirements. (a) (a) For the Department of Defense, the Coast Guard, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, unless the contractor maintains an approved purchasing system, 10 U.S.C. 3322(c) requires notification before the award of any cost-plus-fixed-fee subcontract, or any fixed-price subcontract that exceeds the greater of the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the contract. (b) (b) For civilian agencies other than the Coast Guard and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, even if the contractor has an approved purchasing system, 41 U.S.C. 3905 requires notification before the award of any cost-plus-fixed-fee subcontract, or any fixed-price subcontract that exceeds either the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the contract.
25.501 General. (a) (a) Must apply the evaluation procedures of this subpart to each line item of an offer unless either the offer or the solicitation specifies evaluation on a group basis (see 25.503); (b) (b) May rely on the offeror’s certification of end product origin when evaluating a foreign offer; (c) (c) Must identify and reject offers of end products that are prohibited in accordance with subpart  25.7; and (d) (d) When trade agreements are involved, must not use the Buy American statute evaluation factors prescribed in this subpart to provide a preference for one foreign offer over another foreign offer.
52.232-28 Invitation to Propose Performance-Based Payments. (a) (a) The Government invites the offeror to propose terms under which the Government will make performance-based contract financing payments during contract performance. The Government will consider performance-based payment financing terms proposed by the offeror in the evaluation of the offeror’s proposal. The Contracting Officer will incorporate the financing terms of the successful offeror and the FARclause, Performance-Based Payments, at FAR 52.232-32, in any resulting contract. (b) (b) In the event of any conflict between the terms proposed by the offeror and the terms in the clause at FAR 52.232-32, Performance-Based Payments, the terms of the clause at FAR 52.232-32 shall govern. (c) (c) The Contracting Officer will not accept the offeror’s proposed performance-based payment financing if the financing does not conform to the following limitations: (d) (d) The offeror’s proposal of performance-based payment financing shall include the following: (e) (e) Evaluation of the offeror’s proposed prices and financing terms will include whether the offeror’s proposed performance-based payment events and payment amounts are reasonable and consistent with all other terms and conditions of the offeror’s proposal.
52.211-8 Time of Delivery. (a) (a) The	Government requires delivery to be made according to the following	schedule: (b) (b) Attention	is directed to the Contract Award provision of the solicitation	that provides that a written award or acceptance of offer mailed,	or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror, results in a binding	contract. The Government will mail or otherwise furnish to the offeror	an award or notice of award not later than the day award is dated.	Therefore, the offeror should compute the time available for performance	beginning with the actual date of award, rather than the date the	written notice of award is received from the Contracting Officer	through the ordinary mails. However, the Government will evaluate	an offer that proposes delivery based on the Contractor’s date of	receipt of the contract or notice of award by adding (1) five calendar	days for delivery of the award through the ordinary mails, or (2)	one working day if the solicitation states that the contract or	notice of award will be transmitted electronically. (The term "working	day" excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays.) If, as so computed,	the offered delivery date is later than the required delivery date,	the offer will be considered nonresponsive and rejected.
52.203-10 Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity. (a) (a) The Government, at its election, may reduce the price of a fixed-price type contract and the total cost and fee under a cost-type contract by the amount of profit or fee determined as set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause if the head of the contracting activity or designee determines that there was a violation of 41 U.S.C.2102 or 2103, as implemented in section 3.104 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (b) (b) The price or fee reduction referred to in paragraph (a) of this clause shall be- (c) (c) The Government may, at its election, reduce a prime contractor’s price or fee in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (b) of this clause for violations of the statute by its subcontractors by an amount not to exceed the amount of profit or fee reflected in the subcontract at the time the subcontract was first definitively priced. (d) (d) In addition to the remedies in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this clause, the Government may terminate this contract for default. The rights and remedies of the Government specified herein are not exclusive, and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.
8.705-1 General. (a) (a) Ordering offices shall obtain supplies and services on the Procurement List from the central nonprofit agency or its designated AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies, except that supplies identified on the Procurement List as available from DLA, GSA, or VA supply distribution facilities shall be obtained through DLA, GSA, or VA procedures. If a distribution facility cannot provide the supplies, it shall inform the ordering office, which shall then order from the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency designated by the Committee. (b) (b) Supply distribution facilities in DLA and GSA shall obtain supplies on the Procurement List from the central nonprofit agency identified or its designated AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency.
17.702 Applicability. No subsections found.
52.215-23 Limitations on Pass-Through	Charges. (a) (a) Definitions.	As used in this clause- (b) (b) General.	The Government will not pay excessive pass-through charges. The	Contracting Officer shall determine if excessive pass-through charges	exist. (c) (c) Reporting.	Required reporting of performance of work by the Contractor or a	subcontractor. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer	in writing if- (d) (d) Recovery	of excessive pass-through charges. If the Contracting Officer	determines that excessive pass-through charges exist; (e) (e) Access	to records. (f) (f) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert	the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all	cost-reimbursement subcontracts under this contract that exceed	the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101 on the date of subcontract	award, except if the contract is with DoD, then insert in all cost-reimbursement	subcontracts and fixed-price subcontracts, except those identified	in FAR 15.408(n)(2)(i)(B)(2),	that exceed the threshold for obtaining cost or pricing data in	FAR 15.403-4 on the date of	subcontract award.
6.302 Circumstances permitting other than full and open competition. No subsections found.
3.806 Processing suspected violations. No subsections found.
32.500 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Payments under cost-reimbursement contracts, but see 32.110 for progress payments made to subcontractors under cost-reimbursement prime contracts; or (b) (b) Contracts for construction or for shipbuilding or ship conversion, alteration, or repair, when the contracts provide for progress payments based on a percentage or stage of completion.
22.2105 Paid sick leave for Federal contractors and subcontractors. (a) (a) Accrual. (b) (b) Maximum accrual, carryover, reinstatement, and payment for unused leave. (c) (c) Use. Contractors are required to permit an employee to use paid sick leave in accordance with 29 CFR 13.5(c). (d) (d) Request for paid sick leave. Contractors are required to permit an employee to use any or all of the employee's available paid sick leave upon the oral or written request of an employee that includes information sufficient to inform the contractor that the employee is seeking to be absent from work for a purpose described in 29 CFR 13.5(c) and, to the extent reasonably feasible, the anticipated duration of the leave (see 29 CFR 13.5(d)). (e) (e) Certification or documentation for leave of 3 or more consecutive full workdays. Contractors may require certification issued by a health care provider to verify the need for paid sick leave used for a purpose described in 29 CFR 13.5(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii), or documentation from an appropriate individual or organization to verify the need for paid sick leave used for a purpose described in 29 CFR 13.5(c)(1)(iv), only if the employee is absent for 3 or more consecutive full workdays (see 29 CFR 13.5(e)).
46.702 General. (a) (a) The principal purposes of a warranty in a Government contract are- (b) (b) Generally, a warranty should provide- (c) (c) The benefits to be derived from a warranty must be commensurate with the cost of the warranty to the Government.
28.106-3 Additional bond and security. (a) (a) When additional bond coverage is required and is secured in whole or in part by the original surety or sureties, agencies shall use Standard Form1415, Consent of Surety and Increase of Penalty. Standard Form1415 is authorized for local reproduction. (b) (b) When additional bond coverage is required and is secured in whole or in part by a new surety or by one of the alternatives described in 28.204 in lieu of corporate or individual surety, agencies shall use Standard Form25, Performance Bond; Standard Form1418, Performance Bond for Other Than Construction Contracts; Standard Form25A, Payment Bond; or Standard Form1416, Payment Bond for Other Than Construction Contracts.
Subpart 19.10 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
11.404 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Supplies or services. (b) (b) Construction. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.211-10, Commencement, Prosecution, and Completion of Work, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction contract is contemplated. The clause may be changed to accommodate the issuance of orders under indefinite-delivery contracts. If the completion date is expressed as a specific calendar date, computed on the basis of the contractor receiving the notice to proceed by a certain day, the contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate I.
Subpart 12.3 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses for the Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
8.002 Priorities for use of mandatory Government sources. (a) (a) Except as required by 8.003, or as otherwise provided by law, agencies shall satisfy requirements for supplies and services from or through the mandatory government sources and publications listed below in descending order of priority: (b) (b) Sources other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be used as prescribed in 41 CFR 101-26.301 and in an unusual and compelling urgency as prescribed in 6.302-2 and in 41 CFR 101-25.101-5. (c) (c) The statutory obligation for Government agencies to satisfy their requirements for supplies or services available from the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled also applies when contractors purchase the supplies or services for Government use.
19.402 Small Business Administration procurement center representatives. (a) (a) (b) (b) Upon their request and subject to applicable acquisition and security regulations, contracting officers shall give SBA PCRs (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see paragraph (a) of this section) access to all reasonably obtainable contract information that is directly pertinent to their official duties. (c) (c) The duties assigned by SBA to its PCR are set forth at 13 CFR 125.2(b) and include but are not limited to the following:
42.1305 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.242-14, Suspension of Work, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction or architect-engineer contract is contemplated. (b) (b) (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.242-17, Government Delay of Work, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price contract is contemplated for supplies other than commercial or modified-commercial products. The clause use is optional when a fixed-price contract is contemplated for services, or for supplies that are commercial or modified-commercial products.
4.1103 Procedures. (a) (a) Unless the acquisition is exempt under 4.1102(a), the contracting officer— (b) (b) If the contract action is being awarded in accordance with 4.1102(a)(5), the contractor is required to be registered in SAM within 30 days after contract award, or at least three days prior to submission of the first invoice, whichever occurs first. (c) (c) Agencies shall protect against improper disclosure of information contained in SAM. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall, on contractual documents transmitted to the payment office, provide the unique entity identifier, or, if applicable, the Electronic Funds Transfer indicator, in accordance with agency procedures.
9.407-3 Procedures. (a) (a) Investigation and referral. Agencies shall establish procedures for the prompt reporting, investigation, and referral to the suspending and debarring official of matters appropriate for that official’s consideration. (b) (b) Decision-making process. (c) (c) Notice of suspension. When a contractor and any specifically named affiliates are suspended, they shall be immediately advised using the procedures in 9.406-3(c)(1) and (2)— (d) (d) Suspending and debarring official’s decision. (e) (e) Administrative agreement. (f) (f) Voluntary exclusion. (g) (g) Pre-notice letter. Prior to initiating a suspension, a pre-notice letter may be issued at the discretion of the agency suspending and debarring official. A pre-notice letter is not required to initiate suspension under this subpart. (See 9.403.)
52.204-30 Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Prohibition. (c) (c) Notice and reporting requirement. (d) (d) Removal. For Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition contracts, multi-agency contracts or any other procurement instrument intended for use by multiple agencies, upon notification from the Contracting Officer, during the performance of the contract, the Contractor shall promptly make any necessary changes or modifications to remove any product or service produced or provided by a source that is subject to an applicable FASCSA order. (e) (e) Subcontracts.
Subchapter A - General No subsections found.
52.213-1 Fast Payment Procedure. (a) (a) General. The Government will pay invoices based on the Contractor’s delivery to a post office or common carrier (or, if shipped by other means, to the point of first receipt by the Government). (b) (b) Responsibility for supplies. (c) (c) Preparation of invoice. (d) (d) Certification of invoice. The Contractor certifies by submitting an invoice to the Government that the supplies being billed to the Government have been shipped or delivered in accordance with shipping instructions issued by the ordering officer, in the quantities shown on the invoice, and that the supplies are in the quantity and of the quality designated by the contract, order, or blanket purchase agreement. (e) (e) FAST PAY container identification. The Contractorshall mark all outer shipping containers "FAST PAY" When outer shipping containers are not marked "FAST PAY," the payment office may make fast payment. If the payment office declines to make fast payment, the Contractor shall be paid in accordance with procedures applicable to invoices to which the Fast Payment clause does not apply.
22.101 Labor relations. No subsections found.
Part 44 - Subcontracting Policies and Procedures No subsections found.
47.305 Solicitation provisions, contract clauses, and transportation factors. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall coordinate transportation factors with the transportation office during the planning, solicitation, and award phases of the acquisition process (see 47.105). (b) (b) To the extent feasible, activities shall schedule deliveries to effect savings in transportation costs, and concomitant reductions in energy consumption by carriers (see 47.305-7 and 47.305-8 for specific possibilities).
17.106-1 General. (a) (a) Method of contracting. The	nature of the requirement should govern the selection of the method	of contracting, since the multi-year procedure is compatible with	sealed bidding, including two-step sealed bidding, and negotiation. (b) (b) Type	of contract. Given the longer performance period associated	with multi-year acquisition, consideration in pricing fixed-priced	contracts should be given to the use of economic price adjustment	terms and profit objectives commensurate with contractor risk and	financing arrangements. (c) (c) Cancellation	procedures. (d) (d) Cancellation	ceilings. Cancellation ceilings and dates may be revised after	issuing the solicitation if necessary. In sealed bidding, the contracting	officer shall change the ceiling by amending the solicitation before	bid opening. In two-step sealed bidding, discussions conducted during	the first step may indicate the need for revised ceilings and dates	which may be incorporated in step two. In a negotiated acquisition,	negotiations with offerors may provide information requiring a change	in cancellation ceilings and dates before final negotiation and	contract award. (e) (e) Payment	of cancellation charges. If cancellation occurs, the Government’s	liability will be determined by the terms of the applicable contract. (f) (f) Presolicitation	or pre-bid conferences. To ensure that all interested sources	of supply are thoroughly aware of how multi-year contracting is	accomplished, use of presolicitation or pre-bid conferences may	be advisable. (g) (g) Payment	limit. The contracting officer shall limit the Government’s	payment obligation to an amount available for contract performance.	The contracting officer shall insert the amount for the first program	year in the contract upon award and modify it for successive program	years upon availability of funds. (h) (h) Termination	payment. If the contract is terminated for the convenience of	the Government in whole, including requirements subject to cancellation,	the Government’s obligation shall not exceed the amount specified	in the Schedule as available for contract performance, plus the	cancellation ceiling.
3.202 Contract clause. No subsections found.
42.801 Notice of intent to disallow costs. (a) (a) At any time during the performance of a contract of a type referred to in 42.802, the cognizant contracting officer responsible for administering the contract may issue the contractor a written notice of intent to disallow specified costs incurred or planned for incurrence. However, before issuing the notice, the contracting officer responsible for administering the contract shall make every reasonable effort to reach a satisfactory settlement through discussions with the contractor. (b) (b) A notice of intent to disallow such costs usually results from monitoring contractor costs. The purpose of the notice is to notify the contractor as early as practicable during contract performance that the cost is considered unallowable under the contract terms and to provide for timely resolution of any resulting disagreement. In the event of disagreement, the contractor may submit to the contracting officer a written response. Any such response shall be answered by withdrawal of the notice or by making a written decision within 60 days. (c) (c) As a minimum, the notice shall- (d) (d) The contracting officer issuing the notice shall furnish copies to all contracting officers cognizant of any segment of the contractor’s organization. (e) (e) If the notice involves elements of indirect cost, it shall not be issued without coordination with the contracting officer or auditor having authority for final indirect cost settlement (see 42.705). (f) (f) In the event the contractor submits a response that disagrees with the notice (see paragraph (b) of this section), the contracting officer who issued the notice shall either withdraw the notice or issue the written decision, except when elements of indirect cost are involved, in which case the contracting officer responsible under 42.705 for determining final indirect cost rates shall issue the decision.
35.008 Evaluation for award. (a) (a) Generally, an R&D contract should be awarded to that organization, including any educational institution, that proposes the best ideas or concepts and has the highest competence in the specific field of science or technology involved. However, an award should not be made to obtain capabilities that exceed those needed for successful performance of the work. (b) (b) In R&D contracting, precise specifications are ordinarily not available. The contracting officer should therefore take special care in reviewing the solicitation evaluation factors to assure that they are properly presented and consistent with the solicitation. (c) (c) When a small business concern would otherwise be selected for award but is considered not responsible, the SBA Certificate of Competency procedure shall be followed (see subpart  19.6). (d) (d) The contracting officer should use the procedures in subpart  15.5 to notify and debrief offerors. (e) (e) It is important to evaluate a proposed contractor’s cost or price estimate, not only to determine whether the estimate is reasonable but also to provide valuable insight into the offeror’s understanding of the project, perception of risks, and ability to organize and perform the work. Cost or price analysis, as appropriate (see 15.404-1(c)), is a useful tool.
12.602 Streamlined evaluation of offers. (a) (a) When evaluation factors are used, the contracting officer may insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.212-2, Evaluation-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, in solicitations for commercial products or commercial services or comply with the procedures in 13.106 if the acquisition is being made using simplified acquisition procedures. When the provision at 52.212-2 is used, paragraph (a) of the provision shall be tailored to the specific acquisition to describe the evaluation factors and relative importance of those factors. However, when using the simplified acquisition procedures in part  13, contracting officers are not required to describe the relative importance of evaluation factors. (b) (b) Offers shall be evaluated in accordance with the criteria contained in the solicitation. For many commercial products or commercial services, the criteria need not be more detailed than technical (capability of the item offered to meet the agency need), price, and past performance. Technical capability may be evaluated by how well the proposed products or services meet the Government requirement instead of predetermined subfactors. Solicitations for commercial products or commercial services do not have to contain subfactors for technical capability when the solicitation adequately describes the intended use of the commercial product or commercial service. A technical evaluation would normally include examination of such things as product or service literature, product samples (if requested), technical features, and warranty provisions. Past performance shall be evaluated in accordance with the procedures in section 13.106 or subpart  15.3, as applicable. The contracting officer shall ensure the instructions provided in the provision at 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors—Commercial Products and Commercial Services, and the evaluation criteria provided in the provision at 52.212-2, Evaluation—Commercial Products and Commercial Services, are in agreement. (c) (c) Select the offer that is most advantageous to the Government based on the factors contained in the solicitation. Fully document the rationale for selection of the successful offeror including discussion of any trade-offs considered.
25.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
37.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.222-31 Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (Percentage Method). (a) (a) The wage determination issued under the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute by the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, that is effective for an option to extend the term of the contract, will apply to that option period. (b) (b) The Contracting Officer will adjust the portion of the contract price or contract unit price(s) containing the labor costs subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute to provide for an increase in wages and fringe benefits at the exercise of each option to extend the term of the contract in accordance with the following procedures: (c) (c) The Contracting Officer will make the price adjustment at the exercise of each option to extend the term of the contract. This adjustment is the only adjustment that the Contracting Officer will make to cover any increases in wages and benefits as a result of-
52.246-11 Higher-Level Contract Quality Requirement. (a) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the higher-level quality standard(s) listed below. (b) (b) The Contractor shall include applicable requirements of the higher-level quality standard(s) listed in paragraph (a) of this clause and the requirement to flow down such standards, as applicable, to lower-tier subcontracts, in-
52.219-29 Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business Concerns. (a) (a) Definitions. (b) (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to— (c) (c) General. (d) (d) Joint venture. A joint venture may be considered an EDWOSB concern if— (e) (e) In a joint venture that complies with paragraph (d) of this clause, the EDWOSB party or parties to the joint venture shall perform at least 40 percent of the work performed by the joint venture. Work performed by the EDWOSB party or parties to the joint venture must be more than administrative functions.
14.202-5 Descriptive literature. (a) (a) Policy. Contracting officers must not require bidders to furnish descriptive literature unless it is needed before award to determine whether the products offered meet the specification and to establish exactly what the bidder proposes to furnish. (b) (b) Justification. The contracting officer must document in the contract file the reasons why product acceptability cannot be determined without the submission of descriptive literature, except when the contract specifications require submission. (c) (c) Requirements of invitation for bids. (d) (d) Waiver of requirement for descriptive literature. (e) (e) Unsolicited descriptive literature. If descriptive literature is furnished when it is not required by the invitation for bids, the procedures set forth in 14.202-4(f) must be followed.
16.305 Cost-plus-award-fee contracts. No subsections found.
29.301 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.246-7 Inspection of Research and Development-Fixed-Price. (a) (a) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the work under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (b) (b) The Government has the right to inspect and test all work called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect the premises of the Contractor or any subcontractor engaged in contract performance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (c) (c) If the Government performs any inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall require subcontractors to furnish, at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. Except as otherwise provided in the contract, the Government shall bear the expense of Government inspections or tests made at other than the Contractor’s or subcontractor’s premises. (d) (d) The Government shall accept or reject the work as promptly as practicable after delivery, unless otherwise specified in the contract. Government failure to inspect and accept or reject the work shall not relieve the Contractor from responsibility, nor impose liability on the Government, for nonconforming work. Work is nonconforming when it is defective in material or workmanship or is otherwise not in conformity with contract requirements. (e) (e) The Government has the right to reject nonconforming work. If the Contractor fails or is unable to correct or to replace nonconforming work within the delivery schedule (or such later time as the Contracting Officer may authorize), the Contracting Officer may accept the work and make an equitable price reduction. Failure to agree on a price reduction shall be a dispute. (f) (f) Inspection and test by the Government does not relieve the Contractor from responsibility for defects or other failures to meet the contract requirements that may be discovered before acceptance. Acceptance shall be conclusive, except for latent defects, fraud, gross mistakes amounting to fraud, or as otherwise specified in the contract. If acceptance is not conclusive for any of these causes, the Government, in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law, or under other provisions of this contract, shall have the right to require the Contractor-
53.203 [Reserved] No subsections found.
19.1408 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-27, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the SDVOSB Program, in solicitations and contracts for acquisitions that are set aside or awarded on a sole-source basis to, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns under 19.1405 and 19.1406. This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) or when orders may be issued directly to one service-disabled veteran-owned small business contractor in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii). (b) (b)For use of clause 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, see the prescription at 19.507(e). (c) (c)For use of clause 52.219-33, Nonmanufacturer Rule, see the prescription at 19.507(h).
Subpart 1.5 - Agency and Public Participation No subsections found.
9.106-3 Interagency preaward surveys. No subsections found.
9.405 Effect of listing. (a) (a) Contractors debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, are excluded from receiving contracts, and agencies shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, or consent to subcontracts with these contractors, unless the agency head determines that there is a compelling reason for such action (see 9.405-1(a)(2), 9.405-2, 9.406-1(d), 9.407-1(d), and 26.505(e)). Contractors debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, are also excluded from conducting business with the Government as agents or representatives of other contractors. (b) (b) Contractors and other entities that have an active exclusion record in SAM because they have been declared ineligible on the basis of statutory or other regulatory procedures are excluded from receiving contracts, and if applicable, subcontracts, under the conditions and for the period set forth in the statute or regulation. Agencies shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, or consent to subcontracts with these contractors under those conditions and for that period. (c) (c) Agencies shall not enter into, renew, or extend contracts with contractors that have been declared ineligible pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2593e. (d) (d) Contractors debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, are excluded from acting as individual sureties (see part  28). (e) (e)
52.219-14 Limitations on Subcontracting. (a) (a) This clause does not apply to the unrestricted portion of a partial set-aside. (b) (b) Definition. Similarly situated entity, as used in this clause, means a first-tier subcontractor, including an independent contractor, that— (c) (c) Applicability. This clause applies only to— (d) (d) Independent contractors. An independent contractor shall be considered a subcontractor. (e) (e) Limitations on subcontracting. By submission of an offer and execution of a contract, the Contractor agrees that in performance of a contract assigned a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for— (f) (f) The Contractor shall comply with the limitations on subcontracting as follows: (g) (g) A joint venture agrees that, in the performance of the contract, the applicable percentage specified in paragraph (e) of this clause will be performed by the aggregate of the joint venture participants.
31.205-37 Royalties and other costs for use of patents. (a) (a) Royalties on a patent or amortization of the cost of purchasing a patent or patent rights necessary for the proper performance of the contract and applicable to contract products or processes are allowable unless- (b) (b) Care should be exercised in determining reasonableness when the royalties may have been arrived at as a result of less-than-arm’s-length bargaining; e.g.,royalties- (c) (c) In any case involving a patent formerly owned by the contractor, the royalty amount allowed should not exceed the cost which would have been allowed had the contractor retained title. (d) (d) See 31.109 regarding advance agreements.
52.208-7 Tagging of Leased Vehicles. No subsections found.
36.511 Use and possession prior to completion. No subsections found.
52.247-61 F.o.b. Origin-Minimum Size of Shipments. No subsections found.
1.403 Individual deviations. No subsections found.
10.003 Contract clause. No subsections found.
27.001 Definition. No subsections found.
52.225-11 Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Construction materials. (c) (c) Request for determination of inapplicability of the Buy American statute. (d) (d) Data. To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey of suppliers:
32.009-1 General. (a) (a) (b) (b) This acceleration does not provide any new rights under the Prompt Payment Act and does not affect the application of the Prompt Payment Act late payment interest provisions. (c) (c) Agencies may use the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as a method of payment (see 32.1108) to facilitate accelerated payment, to earn refunds, and to reduce invoice processing costs.
Subpart 47.5 - Ocean Transportation by U.S.-Flag Vessels No subsections found.
52.219-5 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.227-21 Technical Data Declaration, Revision, and Withholding of Payment-Major Systems. (a) (a) Scope of declaration. The Contractor shall provide, in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 2302(e)(7), the following declaration with respect to all technical data that relate to a major system and that are delivered or required to be delivered under this contract or that are delivered within 3 years after acceptance of all items (other than technical data) delivered under this contract unless a different period is set forth in the contract. The Contracting Officer may release the Contractor from all or part of the requirements of this clause for specifically identified technical data items at any time during the period covered by this clause. (b) (b) Technical data declaration. (c) (c) Technical data revision. The Contractor also shall, at the request of the Contracting Officer, revise technical data that are subject to this clause to reflect engineering design changes made during the performance of this contract and affecting the form, fit, and function of any item (other than technical data) delivered under this contract. The Contractor may submit a request for an equitable adjustment to the terms and conditions of this contract for any revisions to technical data made pursuant to this paragraph. (d) (d) Withholding of payment.
4.602 General. (a) (a) The FPDS provides a comprehensive web-based tool for agencies to report contract actions. The resulting data provides- (b) (b) FPDS does not provide reports for certain acquisition information used in the award of a contract action (e.g., subcontracting data, funding data, or accounting data). (c) (c) The FPDS Web site, https://www.fpds.gov, provides instructions for submitting data. It also provides-
52.214-29 Order of Precedence-Sealed Bidding. (a) (a) The Schedule (excluding the specifications); (b) (b) Representations and other instructions; (c) (c) Contract clauses; (d) (d) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments; and (e) (e) The specifications.
14.408-6 Equal low bids. (a) (a) Contracts shall be awarded in the following order of priority when two or more low bids are equal in all respects: (b) (b) If two or more bidders still remain equally eligible after application of paragraph (a) of this section, award shall be made by a drawing by lot limited to those bidders. If time permits, the bidders involved shall be given an opportunity to attend the drawing. The drawing shall be witnessed by at least three persons, and the contract file shall contain the names and addresses of the witnesses and the person supervising the drawing. (c) (c) When an award is to be	made by using the priorities under this 14.408-6, the contracting officer shall include a written	agreement in the contract that the contractor will perform, or cause to be	performed, the contract in accordance with the circumstances justifying the	priority used to break the tie or select bids for a drawing by lot.
49.108-5 Recognition of judgments and arbitration awards. (a) (a) When a subcontractor obtains a final judgment against a prime contractor, the TCO shall, for the purposes of settling the prime contract, treat the amount of the judgment as a cost of settling with the contractor, to the extent the judgment is properly allocable to the terminated portion of the prime contract, if- (b) (b) If the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section are not all met, the TCO may allow the contractor the part of the judgment considered fair for settling the subcontract settlement proposal, giving due regard to the policies in this part for settlement of proposals. (c) (c) When a contractor and a subcontractor submit the subcontractor’s settlement proposal to arbitration under any applicable law or contract provision, the TCO shall recognize the arbitration award as the cost of settling the proposal of the contractor to the same extent and under the same conditions as in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
15.202 Advisory multi-step process. (a) (a) The agency may publish a presolicitation notice (see 5.204) that provides a general description of the scope or purpose of the acquisition and invites potential offerors to submit information that allows the Government to advise the offerors about their potential to be viable competitors. The presolicitation notice should identify the information that must be submitted and the criteria that will be used in making the initial evaluation. Information sought may be limited to a statement of qualifications and other appropriate information (e.g., proposed technical concept, past performance, and limited pricing information). At a minimum, the notice shall contain sufficient information to permit a potential offeror to make an informed decision about whether to participate in the acquisition. This process should not be used for multi-step acquisitions where it would result in offerors being required to submit identical information in response to the notice and in response to the initial step of the acquisition. (b) (b) The agency shall evaluate all responses in accordance with the criteria stated in the notice, and shall advise each respondent in writing either that it will be invited to participate in the resultant acquisition or, based on the information submitted, that it is unlikely to be a viable competitor. The agency shall advise respondents considered not to be viable competitors of the general basis for that opinion. The agency shall inform all respondents that, notwithstanding the advice provided by the Government in response to their submissions, they may participate in the resultant acquisition.
32.408 Application for advance payments. (a) (a) A contractor may apply for advance payments before or after the award of a contract. (b) (b) The contractor shall submit any advance payment request in writing to the contracting officer and provide the following information:
14.103-2 Limitations. (a) (a) Bids have been solicited as required by subpart  14.2; (b) (b) Bids have been submitted as required by subpart  14.3; (c) (c) The requirements of 1.602-1(b) and part  6 have been met; and (d) (d) An award is made to the responsible bidder (see 9.1) whose bid is responsive to the terms of the invitation for bids and is most advantageous to the Government, considering only price and the price related factors included in the invitation, as provided in subpart  14.4.
Subpart 22.4 - Labor Standards for Contracts Involving Construction No subsections found.
52.216-19 Order Limitations. (a) (a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than _____________ [insert dollar figure or quantity], the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor- (c) (c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within _____ days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor’s intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source.
4.1202 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the provision at 52.204-8, Annual Representations and Certifications, in solicitations, except for solicitations for commercial products or commercial services issued under part 12. The contracting officer shall check the applicable provisions at 52.204-8(c)(2). Use the provision with its Alternate I in solicitations issued after October 1, 2028, that will result in a multiple-award contract with more than one North American Industry Classification System code assigned (see 19.102(b)). When the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management, is included in the solicitation, do not separately include the following representations and certifications: (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-19, Incorporation by Reference of Representations and Certifications, in solicitations and contracts.
Subpart 32.11 - Electronic Funds Transfer No subsections found.
30.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
Subpart 11.2 - Using and Maintaining Requirements Documents No subsections found.
4.2104 Waivers. (a) (a) Executive agencies. The head of an executive agency may, on a one-time basis, waive the prohibition at 4.2102(a) with respect to a Government entity (e.g., requirements office, contracting office) that requests such a waiver. (b) (b) Director of National Intelligence. The Director of National Intelligence may provide a waiver if the Director determines the waiver is in the national security interests of the United States.
19.703 Eligibility requirements for participating in the program. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, to be eligible as a subcontractor under the program, a concern must represent itself as a small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small business concern. (b) (b) The contractor, the contracting officer, or any other interested party can challenge a subcontractor's size status representation by filing a protest, in accordance with 13 CFR 121.1001 through 121.1008. (c) (c) (d) (d) Protests challenging the socioeconomic status of a HUBZone small business concern must be filed in accordance with 13 CFR 126.801.
44.202 Contracting officer’s evaluation. No subsections found.
52.232-4 Payments under Transportation Contracts and Transportation-Related Services Contracts. No subsections found.
52.223-6 [Reserved] No subsections found.
13.104 Promoting competition. (a) (a) The contracting officer must not- (b) (b) If using simplified acquisition procedures and not providing access to the notice of proposed contract action and solicitation information through the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE), maximum practicable competition ordinarily can be obtained by soliciting quotations or offers from sources within the local trade area. Unless the contract action requires synopsis pursuant to 5.101 and an exception under 5.202 is not applicable, consider solicitation of at least three sources to promote competition to the maximum extent practicable. Whenever practicable, request quotations or offers from two sources not included in the previous solicitation. (c) (c) When conducting a reverse auction, see subpart  17.8.
52.214-14 Place of Performance-Sealed Bidding. (a) (a) The bidder, in the performance of any contract resulting from this solicitation, □ intends, □ does not intend [check applicable box] to use one or more plants or facilities located at a different address from the address of the bidder as indicated in this bid. (b) (b) If the bidder checks "intends" in paragraph (a) of this provision, it shall insert in the spaces provided below the required information:
46.403 Government contract quality assurance at destination. (a) (a) Government contract quality assurance that can be performed at destination is normally limited to inspection of the supplies or services. Inspection shall be performed at destination under the following circumstances- (b) (b) Overseas inspection of supplies shipped from the United States shall not be required except in unusual circumstances, and then only when the contracting officer determines in advance that inspection can be performed or makes necessary arrangements for its performance.
52.216-24 Limitation of Government Liability. (a) (a) In performing this contract, the Contractor is not authorized to make expenditures or incur obligations exceeding __________ dollars. (b) (b) The maximum amount for which the Government shall be liable if this contract is terminated is ___________ dollars.
52.228-11 Individual Surety—Pledge of Assets. (a) (a)The Contractor shall obtain from each person acting as an individual surety on a performance bond or a payment bond— (b) (b)The Contracting Officer may release a portion of the security interest on the individual surety's assets based upon substantial performance of the Contractor's obligations under its performance bond. The security interest in support of a performance bond shall be maintained— (c) (c)A surety's assets pledged in support of a payment bond may be released to a subcontractor or supplier upon Government receipt of a Federal district court judgment, or a sworn statement by the subcontractor or supplier that the claim is correct along with a notarized authorization of the release by the surety stating that it approves of such release. The security interest on the individual surety's assets in support of a payment bond shall be maintained— (d) (d)The Contracting Officer may allow the Contractor to substitute an individual surety, for a performance or payment bond, after contract award. The Contractor shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this clause within the timeframe established by the Contracting Officer.
28.105-2 Patent infringement bonds. (a) (a) Contracts providing for patent indemnity may require these bonds only if- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall determine the penal sum.
6.003 [Reserved] No subsections found.
17.403 Procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer may award a prime contract to a- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall ensure that any contract awarded under this arrangement contains a firm agreement regarding disclosure, if any, of contractor trade secrets, technical designs or concepts, and specific data, or software, of a proprietary nature.
22.1102 Definition. No subsections found.
45.604-1 Sales procedures. No subsections found.
19.811 Preparing the contracts. No subsections found.
32.601 General. (a) (a) Contract debts are amounts that- (b) (b) Contract debts include, but are not limited to, the following:
52.203-5 Covenant Against Contingent Fees. (a) (a) The Contractor warrants that no person or agency has been employed or retained to solicit or obtain this contract upon an agreement or understanding for a contingent fee, except a bona fide employee or agency. For breach or violation of this warranty, the Government shall have the right to annul this contract without liability or, to deduct from the contract price or consideration, or otherwise recover, the full amount of the contingent fee. (b) (b) "Bona fide agency," as used in this clause, means an established commercial or selling agency, maintained by a contractor for the purpose of securing business, that neither exerts nor proposes to exert improper influence to solicit or obtain Government contracts nor holds itself out as being able to obtain any Government contract or contracts through improper influence.
52.249-12 Termination (Personal Services). No subsections found.
9.406-5 Scope of debarment. (a) (a) The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with a contractor may be imputed to the contractor when the conduct occurred in connection with the individual’s performance of duties for or on behalf of the contractor, or with the contractor’s knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. The contractor’s acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. (b) (b) The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of a contractor may be imputed to any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with the contractor who participated in, knew of, or had reason to know of the contractor’s conduct. (c) (c) The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of one contractor participating in a joint venture or similar arrangement may be imputed to other participating contractors if the conduct occurred for or on behalf of the joint venture or similar arrangement, or with the knowledge, approval, or acquiescence of these contractors. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.
4.1005 Data elements for line items and subline items. No subsections found.
19.804-1 Agency evaluation. (a) (a) Current and future plans to acquire the specific items or work that 8(a) participants are seeking to provide, identified in terms of- (b) (b) The impact of any delay in delivery; (c) (c) Whether the items or work have previously been acquired using small business set-asides, and the date the items or work were acquired; (d) (d) Problems encountered in previous acquisitions of the items or work from the 8(a) participants or other contractors; and (e) (e) Any other pertinent information about known 8(a) participants, the items, or the work. This includes any information concerning the participants' products or capabilities. When necessary, the contracting agency shall make an independent review of the factors in 19.803(a) and other aspects of the participants' capabilities which would ensure the satisfactory performance of the requirement being considered for commitment to the 8(a) program.
Subpart 31.1 - Applicability No subsections found.
38.201 Coordination requirements. (a) (a) Subject to interagency agreements, contracting officers having responsibility for awarding Federal Supply Schedule contracts shall coordinate and obtain approval of the General Services Administration’s Federal Supply Service (FSS) before- (b) (b) Requests should be forwarded to the:
Subpart 13.5 - Simplified Procedures for Certain Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
11.502 Procedures. (a) (a) Include the applicable liquidated damages clause and liquidated damages rates in solicitations when the contract will contain liquidated damages provisions. (b) (b) Construction contracts with liquidated damages provisions must describe the rate(s) of liquidated damages assessed per day of delay. The rate(s) should include the estimated daily cost of Government inspection and superintendence. The rate(s) should also include an amount for other expected expenses associated with delayed completion such as-
4.2303 FASCSA orders. (a) (a) Executive agencies are prohibited from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to procure or obtain, any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, including contractor use of covered articles or sources, if that prohibition is established by an applicable FASCSA order issued by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, or Secretary of Homeland Security (the “issuing official”)(see 41 CFR 201–1.304(a)). (b) (b) If a covered article or the source is subject to an applicable Governmentwide FASCSA order issued collectively by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, and Secretary of Homeland Security, executive agencies responsible for management of the Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition contracts, and multi-agency contracts shall facilitate implementation of a collective FASCSA order by removing the covered articles or sources identified in the FASCSA order from such contracts (see 41 CFR 201–1.303(g)). (c) (c)
16.301-2 Application. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall use cost-reimbursement contracts only when- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall document the rationale for selecting the contract type in the written acquisition plan and ensure that the plan is approved and signed at least one level above the contracting officer (see 7.103(j) and 7.105).
19.504 	Orders under multiple-award contracts. (a) (a) General. In accordance with section 1331 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 ( 15 U.S.C. 644(r)(2)), contracting officers may, at their discretion, set aside orders placed under multiple-award contracts for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3). (b) (b) Orders under set-aside contracts— (c) (c) Orders under reserves.
52.230-3 Disclosure and Consistency	of Cost Accounting Practices. (a) (a) The	Contractor, in connection with this contract, shall- (b) (b) If the parties	fail to agree whether the Contractor has complied with an applicable	CAS, rule, or regulation as specified in 48	CFR 9903 and 9904 and as to any cost adjustment demanded by	the United States, such failure to agree will constitute a dispute	under 41 U.S.C. chapter 71,	Contract Disputes. (c) (c) The Contractor	shall permit any authorized representatives of the Government to	examine and make copies of any documents, papers, and records relating	to compliance with the requirements of this clause. (d) (d) The Contractor	shall include in all negotiated subcontracts, which the Contractor	enters into, the substance of this clause, except paragraph (b),	and shall require such inclusion in all other subcontracts of any	tier, except that-
8.104 Obtaining nonreportable property. No subsections found.
42.1203 Processing agreements. (a) (a) If a contractor wishes the Government to recognize a successor in interest to its contracts or a name change, the contractor must submit a written request to the responsible contracting officer (see 42.1202). If the contractor received its contract under subpart  8.7 under 41 U.S.C. chapter 85, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, use the procedures at 8.716 instead. (b) (b) The responsible contracting officer shall- (c) (c) Upon receipt of the necessary information, the responsible contracting officer shall determine whether or not it is in the Government’s interest to recognize the proposed successor in interest on the basis of- (d) (d) The execution of a novation agreement does not preclude the use of any other method available to the contracting officer to resolve any other issues related to a transfer of contractor assets, including the treatment of costs. (e) (e) Any separate agreement between the transferor and transferee regarding the assumption of liabilities (e.g., long-term incentive compensation plans, cost accounting standards noncompliances, environmental cleanup costs, and final overhead costs) should be referenced specifically in the novation agreement. (f) (f) Before novation and change-of-name agreements are executed, the responsible contracting officer shall ensure that Government counsel has reviewed them for legal sufficiency. (g) (g) The responsible contracting officer shall- (h) (h) Following distribution of the agreement, the responsible contracting officer shall-
12.212 Computer software. (a) (a) Commercial computer software or commercial computer software documentation shall be acquired under licenses customarily provided to the public to the extent such licenses are consistent with Federal law and otherwise satisfy the Government’s needs. Generally, offerors and contractors shall not be required to- (b) (b) With regard to commercial computer software and commercial computer software documentation, the Government shall have only those rights specified in the license contained in any addendum to the contract. For additional guidance regarding the use and negotiation of license agreements for commercial computer software, see 27.405-3.
30.202-4 Privileged and confidential information. No subsections found.
26.500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
13.303 Blanket purchase agreements (BPAs). No subsections found.
50.205-3 Authorization of offers contingent upon SAFETY Act designation or certification before contract award. (a) (a) Contracting officers may authorize such contingent offers, only if- (b) (b) Contracting officers shall not authorize offers contingent upon obtaining a SAFETY Act certification (as opposed to a SAFETY Act designation), unless a block certification applies to the class of technology to be acquired under the solicitation.
52.223-8 [Reserved] No subsections found.
36.101 Applicability. (a) (a) Construction and architect-engineer contracts are subject to the requirements in other parts of this regulation, which shall be followed when applicable. (b) (b) When a requirement in this part is inconsistent with a requirement in another part of this regulation, this part  36 shall take precedence if the acquisition of construction or architect-engineer services is involved. (c) (c) A contract for both construction and supplies or services shall include-
24.301 Privacy training. (a) (a) Contractors are responsible for ensuring that initial privacy training, and annual privacy training thereafter, is completed by contractor employees who- (b) (b) Privacy training shall address the key elements necessary for ensuring the safeguarding of personally identifiable information or a system of records. The training shall be role-based, provide foundational as well as more advanced levels of training, and have measures in place to test the knowledge level of users. At a minimum, the privacy training shall cover- (c) (c) The contractor may provide its own training or use the training of another agency unless the contracting agency specifies that only its agency-provided training is acceptable (see 24.302(b)). (d) (d) The contractor is required to maintain and, upon request, to provide documentation of completion of privacy training for all applicable employees. (e) (e) No contractor employee shall be permitted to have or retain access to a system of records, create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose, or otherwise handle personally identifiable information, or design, develop, maintain, or operate a system of records, unless the employee has completed privacy training that, at a minimum, addresses the elements in paragraph (b) of this section.
6.204 Section 8(a) competition. (a) (a) To fulfill statutory requirements relating to section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 100-656, contracting officers may limit competition to eligible 8(a) participants (see subpart  19.8). (b) (b) No separate justification or determination and findings is required under this part to limit competition to eligible 8(a) participants. (But see 6.302-5 and 6.303-1 for sole source 8(a) awards over $25 million.)
17.604 Identifying management and operating contracts. (a) (a) Government-owned or -controlled facilities must be utilized; for instance- (b) (b) Because of the nature of the work, or because it is to be performed in Government facilities, the Government must maintain a special, close relationship with the contractor and the contractor’s personnel in various important areas (e.g., safety, security, cost control, site conditions). (c) (c) The conduct of the work is wholly or at least substantially separate from the contractor’s other business, if any. (d) (d) The work is closely related to the agency’s mission and is of a long-term or continuing nature, and there is a need-
3.900 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. 4712 is implemented in 3.900 through 3.906. These sections do not apply to— (b) (b) Section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113–235) and its successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions), is implemented in 3.909, which is applicable to all agencies. (c) (c) Section 3.907 of this subpart implements section 1553 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111–5), and applies to all contracts funded in whole or in part by that Act.
50.103 Contract adjustments. No subsections found.
22.1305 Waivers. (a) (a) The Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Department of Labor, may waive any or all of the terms of the clause at 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans, for- (b) (b) The head of the agency may waive any requirement in this subpart when it is determined that the contract is essential to the national security, and that its award without complying with such requirements is necessary to the national security. Upon making such a determination, the head of the agency must notify the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Labor in writing within 30 days. (c) (c) The contracting officer must submit requests for waivers in accordance with agency procedures. (d) (d) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Labor may withdraw an approved waiver for a specific contract or group of contracts to be awarded, when in the Deputy’s judgment such action is necessary to achieve the purposes of the Act. The withdrawal does not apply to awarded contracts. For procurements entered into by sealed bidding, such withdrawal does not apply unless the withdrawal is made more than 10 calendar days before the date set for the opening of bids.
52.216-17 Incentive Price Revision-Successive Targets. (a) (a) General. The supplies or services identified in the Schedule as Items _________ [Contracting Officer insert line item numbers] are subject to price revision in accordance with this clause; provided, that in no event shall the total final price of these items exceed the ceiling price of dollars ($__________________). The prices of these items shown in the Schedule are the initial target prices, which include an initial target profit of ___________ [Contracting Officer insert percent] percent of the initial target cost. Any supplies or services that are to be- (b) (b) Definition. "Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance with part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract. (c) (c) Submitting data for establishing the firm fixed price or a final profit adjustment formula. (d) (d) Establishing firm fixed price or final profit adjustment formula. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the data required by paragraph (c) of this section, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor shall promptly establish either a firm fixed price or a profit adjustment formula for determining final profit, as follows: (e) (e) Submitting data for final price revision. Unless a firm fixed price has been established in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section within _____________ [Contracting Officer insert number of days] days after the end of the month in which the Contractor has delivered the last unit of supplies and completed the services specified by item number in paragraph (a) of this section, the Contractor shall submit in the format of Table  15-1, FAR 15.408 (or in any other form on which the parties agree)- (f) (f) Final price revision. Unless a firm fixed price has been agreed to in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer shall, promptly after submission of the data required by paragraph (e) of this section, establish the total final price, as follows: (g) (g) Contract modification. The total final price of the items specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be evidenced by a modification to this contract, signed by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer. This price shall not be subject to revision, notwithstanding any changes in the cost of performing the contract, except to the extent that- (h) (h) Adjustment of billing prices. (i) (i) Quarterly limitation on payments statement. This paragraph (i) shall apply until a firm fixed price or a total final price is established under paragraph (d)(3) or (f)(2). (j) (j) Subcontracts. No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis. (k) (k) Disagreements. If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon (1)a total firm target cost and a final profit adjustment formula or (2)a total final price, within 60 days (or within such other period as the Contracting Officer may specify) after the date on which the data required in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section are to be submitted, the Contracting Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance with the Disputes clause. (l) (l) Termination. If this contract is terminated before the total final price is established, prices of supplies or services subject to price revision shall be established in accordance with this clause for (1) completed supplies and services accepted by the Government and (2) those supplies or services not terminated under a partial termination. All other elements of the termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable clauses of this contract. (m) (m) Equitable adjustments under other clauses. If an equitable adjustment in the contract price is made under any other clause of this contract before the total final price is established, the adjustment shall be made in the total target cost and may be made in the maximum dollar limit on the total final price, the total target profit, or both. If the adjustment is made after the total final price is established, only the total final price shall be adjusted. (n) (n) Exclusion from target price and total final price. If any clause of this contract provides that the contract price does not or will not include an amount for a specific purpose, then neither any target price nor the total final price includes or will include any amount for that purpose. (o) (o) Separate reimbursement. If any clause of this contract expressly provides that the cost of performance of an obligation shall be at Government expense, that expense shall not be included in any target price or in the total final price, but shall be reimbursed separately. (p) (p) Taxes. As used in the Federal, State, and Local Taxes clause or in any other clause that provides for certain taxes or duties to be included in, or excluded from, the contract price, the term "contract price" includes the total target price or, if it has been established, the total final price. When any of these clauses requires that the contract price be increased or decreased as a result of changes in the obligation of the Contractor to pay or bear the burden of certain taxes or duties, the increase or decrease shall be made in the total target price or, if it has been established, in the total final price, so that it will not affect the Contractor’s profit or loss on this contract.
47.303-12 Ex dock, pier, or warehouse, port of importation. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."Ex dock, pier, or warehouse, port of importation" means free of expense to the Government delivered on the designated dock or pier or in the warehouse at the specified port of importation. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-40, Ex Dock, Pier, or Warehouse, Port of Importation, when the delivery term is ex dock, pier, or warehouse, port of importation.
19.202-6 Determination of fair market price. (a) (a) The fair market price shall be the price achieved in accordance with the reasonable price guidelines in 15.404-1(b) for- (b) (b) For 8(a) contracts, both with respect to meeting the requirement at 19.806(b) and in order to accurately estimate the current fair market price, contracting officers shall follow the procedures at 19.807.
52.214-27 Price Reduction for	Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications-Sealed Bidding. (a) (a) This clause shall become operative	only for any modification to this contract involving aggregate increases	and/or decreases in costs, plus applicable profits, expected to	exceed the threshold for the submission of certified cost or pricing data	in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.403-4(a)(1) on the	date of execution of the modification, except that this clause does	not apply to a modification if an exception under FAR 15.403-1(b)	applies. (b) (b) If any price,	including profit, negotiated in connection with any modification	under this clause, was increased by any significant amount because	(1) the Contractor or a subcontractor furnished certified cost or	pricing data that were not complete, accurate, and current as certified	in its Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, (2)a subcontractor	or prospective subcontractor furnished the Contractor certified	cost or pricing data that were not complete, accurate, and current	as certified in the Contractor’s Certificate of Current Cost or	Pricing Data, or (3) any of these parties furnished data of any description	that were not accurate, the price shall be reduced accordingly and	the contract shall be modified to reflect the reduction. This right	to a price reduction is limited to that resulting from defects in	data relating to modifications for which this clause becomes operative	under paragraph (a) of this clause (c) (c) Any reduction	in the contract price under paragraph (b) of this clause due to	defective data from a prospective subcontractor that was not subsequently	awarded the subcontract shall be limited to the amount, plus applicable	overhead and profit markup, by which (1) the actual subcontract	or (2) the actual cost to the Contractor, if there was no subcontract,	was less than the prospective subcontract cost estimate submitted	by the Contractor; provided, that the actual subcontract price was	not itself affected by defective certified cost or pricing data. (d) (d) (e) (e) If any	reduction in the contract price under this clause reduces the price	of items for which payment was made prior to the date of the modification	reflecting the price reduction, the Contractor shall be liable to	and shall pay the United States at the time such overpayment is	repaid-
14.408-8 Protests against award. No subsections found.
32.406 Letters of credit. (a) (a) The Department of the Treasury (Treasury) prescribes regulations and instructions covering the use of letters of credit for advance payments under contracts. See Treasury Department Circular1075 (31 CFR Part 205), and the implementing instructions in the Treasury Financial Manual, available in offices providing financial advice and assistance. (b) (b) If agencies provide advance payments to contractors, use of the following methods is required unless the agency has obtained a waiver from the Treasury Department: (c) (c) If the agency has entered into multiple contracts (or a combination of contract(s) and assistance agreement(s)) involving eligibility of a contractor for more than one letter of credit, the agency shall follow arrangements made under Treasury procedures for- (d) (d) The letter of credit enables the contractor to withdraw Government funds in amounts needed to cover its own disbursements of cash for contract performance. Whenever feasible, the agency shall, under the direction and approval of the Department of the Treasury, use a letter of credit method that requires the contractor not to withdraw the Government funds until the contractor’s checks have been- (e) (e) The Treasury regulations provide for terminating the advance financing arrangement if the contractor is unwilling or unable to minimize the elapsed time between receipt of the advance and disbursement of the funds. In such cases, if reversion to normal payment methods is not feasible, the Treasury regulation provides for use of a working capital method of advance; i.e., for limiting advances to-
47.102 Transportation insurance. (a) (a) The Government generally- (b) (b) Under special circumstances the Government may, if such action is considered necessary and in the Government’s interest, (1) buy insurance coverage for Government property or (2) require the carrier to (i) assume full responsibility for loss of or damage to the Government property in its possession and (ii) buy insurance to cover the carrier’s assumed responsibility. The cost of this insurance to the carrier shall be part of the transportation cost. (The Secretary of the Treasury prescribes regulations regarding shipments of valuables in 31 CFR parts 361 and 362.) (c) (c)
32.706-3 Clause for unenforceability of unauthorized obligations. No subsections found.
25.407 Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft. No subsections found.
8.713 Optional acquisition of supplies and services. (a) (a) Ordering offices may acquire supplies and services not included on the Procurement List from an AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency that is the low responsive, responsible offeror under a solicitation issued by other authorized acquisition methods. (b) (b) Ordering offices should forward solicitations to AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies that may be qualified to provide the supplies or services required.
31.205-39 Service and warranty costs. No subsections found.
52.208-9 Contractor Use of Mandatory Sources of Supply or Services. (a) (a) Certain supplies or services to be provided under this contract for use by the Government are required by law to be obtained from nonprofit agencies participating in the program operated by the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (the Committee) under 41 U.S.C. 8504. Additionally, certain of these supplies are available from the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), the General Services Administration (GSA), or the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Contractor shall obtain mandatory supplies or services to be provided for Government use under this contract from the specific sources indicated in the contract schedule. (b) (b) The Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer if a mandatory source is unable to provide the supplies or services by the time required, or if the quality of supplies or services provided by the mandatory source is unsatisfactory. The Contractor shall not purchase the supplies or services from other sources until the Contracting Officer has notified the Contractor that the Committee or an AbilityOne central nonprofit agency has authorized purchase from other sources. (c) (c) Price and delivery information for the mandatory supplies is available from the Contracting Officer for the supplies obtained through the DLA/GSA/VA distribution facilities. For mandatory supplies or services that are not available from DLA/GSA/VA, price and delivery information is available from the appropriate central nonprofit agency. Payments shall be made directly to the source making delivery. Points of contact for AbilityOne central nonprofit agencies are:
52.246-22 [Reserved] No subsections found.
3.104-3 Statutory and related prohibitions, restrictions, and requirements. (a) (a) Prohibition on disclosing procurement information(41 U.S.C. 2102). (b) (b) Prohibition on obtaining procurement information ( 41 U.S.C. 2102). A person must not, other than as provided by law, knowingly obtain contractor bid or proposal information or source selection information before the award of a Federal agency procurement contract to which the information relates. (c) (c) Actions required when an agency official contacts or is contacted by an offeror regarding non-Federal employment (41 U.S.C. 2103). (d) (d) Prohibition on former official's acceptance of compensation from a contractor ( 41 U.S.C. 2104).
16.405-2 Cost-plus-award-fee contracts. No subsections found.
22.610 Contract clause. No subsections found.
16.102 Policies. (a) (a) Contracts resulting from sealed bidding shall be firm-fixed-price contracts or fixed-price contracts with economic price adjustment. (b) (b) Contracts negotiated under part  15 may be of any type or combination of types that will promote the Government’s interest, except as restricted in this part (see 10 U.S.C. 3321(a) and 41 U.S.C. 3901). Contract types not described in this regulation shall not be used, except as a deviation under subpart  1.4. (c) (c) The cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting shall not be used (see 10 U.S.C. 3322(a) and 41 U.S.C. 3905(a)). Prime contracts (including letter contracts) other than firm-fixed-price contracts shall, by an appropriate clause, prohibit cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost subcontracts (see clauses prescribed in subpart  44.2 for cost-reimbursement contracts and subparts  16.2 and 16.4 for fixed-price contracts). (d) (d) No contract may be awarded before the execution of any determination and findings (D&F’s) required by this part. Minimum requirements for the content of D&F’s required by this part are specified in 1.704.
7.502 Applicability. No subsections found.
32.1000 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
19.1406 Sole source awards. (a) (a) A contracting officer shall consider a contract award to a SDVOSB concern on a sole source basis (see 6.302-5(b)(6)), before considering small business set-asides (see 19.203 and subpart 19.5) provided none of the exclusions of 19.1404 apply and— (b) (b) Effective January 1, 2024, a contracting officer shall only award a sole-source contract to a concern that— (c) (c) The SBA has the right to appeal the contracting officer’s decision not to make an SDVOSB sole-source award.
19.502-11 Solicitation notice regarding administration of change orders for construction. No subsections found.
52.246-9 Inspection of Research and Development (Short Form). No subsections found.
41.204 GSA areawide contracts. (a) (a) Purpose. GSA enters into areawide contracts (see 41.101) for use by Federal agencies. Areawide contracts provide a pre-established contractual vehicle for ordering utility services under the conditions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (b) (b) Features. (c) (c) Procedures for obtaining service. (d) (d) List of areawide contracts. A list of current GSA areawide contracts is available from the GSA office specified at 41.301(a). The list identifies the types of services and the geographic area served. A copy of the contract may also be obtained from this office. (e) (e) Notification. Agencies shall provide GSA at the address specified at 41.301(a) a copy of each SF 26 and executed Authorization issued under an areawide contract within 30 days after execution.
16.603-3 Limitations. (a) (a) Commit the Government to a definitive contract in excess of the funds available at the time the letter contract is executed; (b) (b) Be entered into without competition when competition is required by part  6; or (c) (c) Be amended to satisfy a new requirement unless that requirement is inseparable from the existing letter contract. Any such amendment is subject to the same requirements and limitations as a new letter contract.
52.227-12 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.202 Profit. (a) (a) The TCO shall allow profit on preparations made and work done by the contractor for the terminated portion of the contract but not on the settlement expenses. Anticipatory profits and consequential damages shall not be allowed (but see 49.108-5). Profit for the contractor’s efforts in settling subcontractor proposals shall not be based on the dollar amount of the subcontract settlement agreements but the contractor’s efforts will be considered in determining the overall rate of profit allowed the contractor. Profit shall not be allowed the contractor for material or services that, as of the effective date of termination, have not been delivered by a subcontractor, regardless of the percentage of completion. The TCO may use any reasonable method to arrive at a fair profit. (b) (b) In negotiating or determining profit, factors to be considered include- (c) (c) When computing profit on the terminated portion of a construction contract, the contracting officer shall-
5.303 Announcement of contract awards. (a) (a) Public announcement. Contracting officers shall make information available on awards over $4.5 million (unless another dollar amount is specified in agency acquisition regulations) in sufficient time for the agency concerned to announce it by 5 p.m. Washington, DC, time on the day of award. Agencies shall not release information on awards before the public release time of 5 p.m. Washington, DC time. Contracts excluded from this reporting requirement include- (b) (b) Local announcement. Agencies may also release information on contract awards to the local press or other media. When local announcements are made for contract awards in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, they shall include-
52.225-22 Notice of Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials. (a) (a) Definitions. "Construction material," "domestic construction material," "foreign construction material," "manufacturedconstructionmaterial," "steel," and "unmanufactured construction material," as used in this provision, are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Required Use of Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American statute-Construction Materials" (Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.225-21). (b) (b) Requests for determinations of inapplicability. An offeror requesting a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act) or the Buy American statute should submit the request to the Contracting Officer in time to allow a determination before submission of offers. The Offeror shall include the information and applicable supporting data required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of the clause at FAR 52.225-21 in the request. If an offeror has not requested a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute before submitting its offer, or has not received a response to a previous request, the Offeror shall include the information and supporting data in the offer. (c) (c) Evaluation of offers. (d) (d) Alternate offers.
8.801 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.247-52 Clearance and Documentation Requirements-Shipments to DoD Air or Water Terminal Transshipment Points. (a) (a) At least 10 days before shipping cargo to a water port, the Contractor shall obtain an Export Release from the Government transportation office for- (b) (b) The Contractor is cautioned not to order railway cars or motor vehicles for loading until an Export Release has been received. (c) (c) If the Contracting Officer directs delivery within a shorter period than 10 days, the Contractor shall advise the transportation office of the date on which the cargo will be ready for shipment. (d) (d) At least 5 days before shipping cargo to either a water port or an airport (regardless of the weight, security classification, or the commodity description), the Contractor shall provide the Government transportation office the information shown in paragraph (e) of this clause to permit preparation of a Transportation Control and Movement Document (TCMD). (e) (e) When applying for the Export Release in paragraph (a) of this clause or when providing information for preparation of the TCMD in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall furnish the- (f) (f) All movement documents (Government or commercial bills of lading or other delivery documents) shall be annotated by the Contractor with the- (g) (g) All annotations on the movement documents shall be made in the "Description of Articles" space except, on Government bills of lading the Export Release number and shipping period shall be entered in the space entitled "Route Order/Release No." (h) (h) The Contractor shall-
52.228-4 Workers’ Compensation and War-Hazard Insurance Overseas. (a) (a) This paragraph applies if the Contractor employs any person who, but for a waiver granted by the Secretary of Labor, would be subject to workers’ compensation insurance under the Defense Base Act (42 U.S.C.1651, etseq.). On behalf of employees for whom the applicability of the Defense Base Act has been waived, the Contractor shall (1) provide, before commencing performance under this contract, at least that workers’ compensation insurance or the equivalent as the laws of the country of which these employees are nationals may require, and (2) continue to maintain it until performance is completed. The Contractor shall insert, in all subcontracts under this contract to which the Defense Base Act would apply but for the waiver, a clause similar to this paragraph (a) (including this sentence) imposing upon those subcontractors this requirement to provide such workers’ compensation insurance coverage. (b) (b) This paragraph applies if the Contractor or any subcontractor under this contract employs any person who, but for a waiver granted by the Secretary of Labor, would be subject to the War Hazards Compensation Act (42 U.S.C.1701, etseq.). On behalf of employees for whom the applicability of the Defense Base Act (and hence that of the War Hazards Compensation Act) has been waived, the Contractor shall, subject to reimbursement as provided elsewhere in this contract, afford the same protection as that provided in the War Hazards Compensation Act, except that the level of benefits shall conform to any law or international agreement controlling the benefits to which the employees may be entitled. In all other respects, the standards of the War Hazards Compensation Act shall apply; e.g., the definition of war-hazard risks (injury, death, capture, or detention as the result of a war hazard as defined in the Act), proof of loss, and exclusion of benefits otherwise covered by workers’ compensation insurance or the equivalent. Unless the Contractor elects to assume directly the liability to subcontractor employees created by this clause, the Contractor shall insert, in all subcontracts under this contract to which the War Hazards Compensation Act would apply but for the waiver, a clause similar to this paragraph (b) (including this sentence) imposing upon those subcontractors this requirement to provide war-hazard benefits.
Subpart 3.2 - Contractor Gratuities to Government Personnel No subsections found.
52.219-27 Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-Source Award to, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the SDVOSB Program. (a) (a) Definition. (b) (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to— (c) (c) General. (d) (d) A joint venture may be considered an SDVOSB concern if the managing partner of the joint venture complies with the criteria defined in paragraph (a) of this clause and 13 CFR 128.402. (e) (e) In a joint venture that complies with paragraph (d) of this clause, the SDVOSB party or parties to the joint venture shall perform at least 40 percent of the work performed by the joint venture. Work performed by the SDVOSB party or parties to the joint venture must be more than administrative functions.
36.522 Preconstruction conference. No subsections found.
9.104-4 Subcontractor responsibility. (a) (a) Generally, prospective prime contractors are responsible for determining the responsibility of their prospective subcontractors (but see 9.405 and 9.405-2 regarding debarred, ineligible, or suspended firms). Determinations of prospective subcontractor responsibility may affect the Government's determination of the prospective prime contractor's responsibility. A prospective contractor may be required to provide written evidence of a proposed subcontractor's responsibility. (b) (b) When it is in the Government’s interest to do so, the contracting officer may directly determine a prospective subcontractor’s responsibility (e.g., when the prospective contract involves medical supplies, urgent requirements, or substantial subcontracting). In this case, the same standards used to determine a prime contractor’s responsibility shall be used by the Government to determine subcontractor responsibility.
9.602 General. (a) (a) Contractor team arrangements may be desirable from both a Government and industry standpoint in order to enable the companies involved to- (b) (b) Contractor team arrangements may be particularly appropriate in complex research and development acquisitions, but may be used in other appropriate acquisitions, including production. (c) (c) The companies involved normally form a contractor team arrangement before submitting an offer. However, they may enter into an arrangement later in the acquisition process, including after contract award.
1.102-5 Role of the Acquisition Team. (a) (a) Government members of the Team must be empowered to make acquisition decisions within their areas of responsibility, including selection, negotiation, and administration of contracts consistent with the Guiding Principles. In particular, the contracting officer must have the authority to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with law, to determine the application of rules, regulations, and policies, on a specific contract. (b) (b) The authority to make decisions and the accountability for the decisions made will be delegated to the lowest level within the System, consistent with law. (c) (c) The Team must be prepared to perform the functions and duties assigned. The Government is committed to provide training, professional development, and other resources necessary for maintaining and improving the knowledge, skills, and abilities for all Government participants on the Team, both with regard to their particular area of responsibility within the System, and their respective role as a team member. The contractor community is encouraged to do likewise. (d) (d) The System will foster cooperative relationships between the Government and its contractors consistent with its overriding responsibility to the taxpayers. (e) (e) The FAR outlines procurement policies and procedures that are used by members of the Acquisition Team. If a policy or procedure, or a particular strategy or practice, is in the best interest of the Government and is not specifically addressed in the FAR, nor prohibited by law (statute or case law), Executive order or other regulation, Government members of the Team should not assume it is prohibited. Rather, absence of direction should be interpreted as permitting the Team to innovate and use sound business judgment that is otherwise consistent with law and within the limits of their authority. Contracting officers should take the lead in encouraging business process innovations and ensuring that business decisions are sound.
52.253 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.202 Defense or recovery from certain events. (a) (a) Micro-purchase threshold. The threshold increases when the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster. (See 2.101.) (b) (b) Simplified acquisition threshold. The threshold increases when the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster. (See 2.101.) (c) (c) Commercial product or commercial service treatment. Contracting officers may treat any acquisition of supplies or services as an acquisition of commercial products or commercial services if the head of the agency determines the acquisition is to be used to facilitate the defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack. (See 12.102(f)(1) and 13.500(c).) (d) (d) Simplified procedures for certain commercial products and commercial services. The threshold limits authorized for use of this authority may be increased when it is determined the acquisition is to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster. (See 13.500(c).) (e) (e) Sustainable products and services. Contracting officers are encouraged, but not required, to procure sustainable products and services if the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster (see 23.106(c)).
16.206-4 Contract clause. No subsections found.
1.604 Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR). (a) (a) A copy of the contracting officer’s letter of designation and other documents describing the COR’s duties and responsibilities; (b) (b) A copy of the contract administration functions delegated to a contract administration office which may not be delegated to the COR (see 1.602-2(d)(4)); and (c) (c) Documentation of COR actions taken in accordance with the delegation of authority.
50.104-4 Contract clause. No subsections found.
35.006 Contracting methods and contract type. (a) (a) In R&D acquisitions, the precise specifications necessary for sealed bidding are generally not available, thus making negotiation necessary. However, the use of negotiation in R&D contracting does not change the obligation to comply with part  6. (b) (b) Selecting the appropriate contract type is the responsibility of the contracting officer. However, because of the importance of technical considerations in R&D, the choice of contract type should be made after obtaining the recommendations of technical personnel. Although the Government ordinarily prefers fixed-price arrangements in contracting, this preference applies in R&D contracting only to the extent that goals, objectives, specifications, and cost estimates are sufficient to permit such a preference. The precision with which the goals, performance objectives, and specifications for the work can be defined will largely determine the type of contract employed. The contract type must be selected to fit the work required. (c) (c) Because the absence of precise specifications and difficulties in estimating costs with accuracy (resulting in a lack of confidence in cost estimates) normally precludes using fixed-price contracting for R&D, the use of cost-reimbursement contracts is usually appropriate (see subpart  16.3). The nature of development work often requires a cost-reimbursement completion arrangement (see 16.306(d)). When the use of cost and performance incentives is desirable and practicable, fixed-price incentive and cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts should be considered in that order of preference. (d) (d) When levels of effort can be specified in advance, a short-duration fixed-price contract may be useful for developing system design concepts, resolving potential problems, and reducing Government risks. Fixed-price contracting may also be used in minor projects when the objectives of the research are well defined and there is sufficient confidence in the cost estimate for price negotiations. (See 16.207.) (e) (e) Projects having production requirements as a follow-on to R&D efforts normally should progress from cost-reimbursement contracts to fixed-price contracts as designs become more firmly established, risks are reduced, and production tooling, equipment, and processes are developed and proven. When possible, a final commitment to undertake specific product development and testing should be avoided until-
22.902 Handling complaints. No subsections found.
31.201-1 Composition of total cost. (a) (a) The total cost, including standard costs properly adjusted for applicable variances, of a contract is the sum of the direct and indirect costs allocable to the contract, incurred or to be incurred, plus any allocable cost of money pursuant to 31.205-10, less any allocable credits. In ascertaining what constitutes a cost, any generally accepted method of determining or estimating costs that is equitable and is consistently applied may be used. (b) (b) While the total cost of a contract includes all costs properly allocable to the contract, the allowable costs to the Government are limited to those allocable costs which are allowable pursuant to part  31 and applicable agency supplements.
Subpart 45.2 - Solicitation and Evaluation Procedures No subsections found.
53.230 [Reserved] No subsections found.
9.308-1 Testing performed by the contractor. (a) (a) (b) (b)
22.1004 Department of Labor responsibilities and regulations. (a) (a) Service contract labor standards provisions and procedures (29 CFR Part 4, SubpartA); (b) (b) Wage determination procedures (29 CFR Part 4, subparts A and B); (c) (c) Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute (rulings and interpretations) (29 CFR Part 4, SubpartC); (d) (d) Compensation standards (29 CFR Part 4, SubpartD); (e) (e) Enforcement (29 CFR Part 4, SubpartE); (f) (f) Safe and sanitary working conditions (29 CFR Part 1925); (g) (g) Rules of practice for administrative proceedings enforcing service contract labor standards (29 CFR Part 6); and (h) (h) Practice before the Administrative Review Board (29 CFR Part 8).
42.002 Interagency agreements. (a) (a) Agencies shall avoid duplicate audits, reviews, inspections, and examinations of contractors or subcontractors, by more than one agency, through the use of interagency agreements. (b) (b) Subject to the fiscal regulations of the agencies and applicable interagency agreements, the requesting agency shall reimburse the servicing agency for rendered services in accordance with the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535). (c) (c) When an interagency agreement is established, the agencies are encouraged to consider establishing procedures for the resolution of issues that may arise under the agreement.
27.201-1 General. (a) (a) Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1498, the exclusive remedy for patent or copyright infringement by or on behalf of the Government is a suit for monetary damages against the Government in the Court of Federal Claims. There is no injunctive relief available, and there is no direct cause of action against a contractor that is infringing a patent or copyright with the authorization or consent of the Government (e.g., while performing a contract). (b) (b) The Government may expressly authorize and consent to a contractor’s use or manufacture of inventions covered by U.S. patents by inserting the clause at 52.227-1, Authorization and Consent. (c) (c) Because of the exclusive remedies granted in 28 U.S.C. 1498, the Government requires notice and assistance from its contractors regarding any claims for patent or copyright infringement by inserting the clause at 52.227-2, Notice and Assistance, Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement. (d) (d) The Government may require a contractor to reimburse it for liability for patent infringement arising out of a contract for commercial products or commercial services by inserting the clause at 52.227-3, Patent Indemnity.
50.202 Authorities. (a) (a) Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (SAFETY Act), 6 U.S.C. 441-444. (b) (b) Executive Order 13286 of February 28, 2003, Amendment of Executive Orders, and Other Actions, in Connection With the Transfer of Certain Functions to the Secretary of Homeland Security. (c) (c) Executive Order 10789 of November 14, 1958, Contracting Authority of Government Agencies in Connection with National Defense Functions. (d) (d) 6 CFR Part 25.
13.002 Purpose. (a) (a) Reduce administrative costs; (b) (b) Improve opportunities for small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, veteran-owned, HUBZone, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns to obtain a fair proportion of Government contracts; (c) (c) Promote efficiency and economy in contracting; and (d) (d) Avoid unnecessary burdens for agencies and contractors.
9.206-2 Contract clause. No subsections found.
46.505 Transfer of title and risk of loss. (a) (a) Titleto supplies shall pass to the Government upon formal acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession, unless the contract specifically provides for earlier passage of title. (b) (b) Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss of or damage to supplies shall remain with the contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon- (c) (c) Paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to supplies that so fail to conform to contract requirements as to give a right of rejection. The risk of loss of or damage to such nonconforming supplies remains with the contractor until cure or acceptance. After cure or acceptance, paragraph (b) of this section shall apply. (d) (d) Under paragraph (b) of this section, the contractor shall not be liable for loss of or damage to supplies caused by the negligence of officers, agents, or employees of the Government acting within the scope of their employment. (e) (e) The policy expressed in (a) through (d) of this section is specified in the clause at 52.246-16, Responsibility for Supplies, which is prescribed in 46.316.
24.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
52.215-10 Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data. (a) (a) If any price, including profit or fee, negotiated in connection with this contract, or any cost reimbursable under this contract, was increased by any significant amount because— (b) (b) Any reduction in the contract price under paragraph (a) of this clause due to defective data from a prospective subcontractor that was not subsequently awarded the subcontract shall be limited to the amount, plus applicable overhead and profit markup, by which (1) the actual subcontract or (2) the actual cost to the Contractor, if there was no subcontract, was less than the prospective subcontract cost estimate submitted by the Contractor; provided, that the actual subcontract price was not itself affected by defective certified cost or pricing data. (c) (c) (d) (d) If any reduction in the contract price under this clause reduces the price of items for which payment was made prior to the date of the modification reflecting the price reduction, the Contractor shall be liable to and shall pay the United States at the time such overpayment is repaid-
4.2002 Prohibition. (a) (a) Providing any Kaspersky Lab covered article that the Government will use on or after October 1, 2018; and (b) (b) Using any Kaspersky Lab covered article on or after October 1, 2018, in the development of data or deliverables first produced in the performance of the contract.
11.603 Procedures. (a) (a) There are two levels of priority for rated orders established by the DPAS, identified by the rating symbols "DO" and "DX". All DO rated orders have equal priority with each other and take preference over unrated orders. All DX rated orders have equal priority with each other and take preference over DO rated and unrated orders (see 15 CFR 700.11). The DPAS regulation contains provisions concerning the elements of a rated order (see 15 CFR 700.12); acceptance and rejection of rated orders (see 15 CFR 700.13); preferential scheduling (see 15 CFR 700.14); extension of priority ratings (flowdown) (see 15 CFR 700.15); changes or cancellations of priority ratings and rated orders (see 15 CFR 700.16); use of rated orders (see 15 CFR 700.17); and limitations on placing rated orders (see 15 CFR 700.18). (b) (b) The Delegate Agencies have been given authority by the Department of Commerce to place rated orders in support of approved programs (see Schedule I of the DPAS). Other U.S. Government agencies, Canada, and foreign nations may apply for priority rating authority. (c) (c) Rated orders shall be placed in accordance with the provisions of the DPAS. (d) (d) Agency heads shall ensure compliance with the DPAS by contracting activities within their agencies. (e) (e) Agency heads shall provide contracting activities with specific guidance on the issuance of rated orders in support of approved agency programs, including the general limitations and jurisdictional limitations on placing rated orders (see 15 CFR 700.18 and Executive Order 12919). (f) (f) Contracting officers shall follow agency procedural instructions concerning the use of rated orders in support of approved agency programs. (g) (g) Contracting officers, contractors, or subcontractors at any tier, that experience difficulty placing rated orders, obtaining timely delivery under rated orders, locating a contractor or supplier to fill a rated order, ensuring that rated orders receive preferential treatment by contractors or suppliers, or require rating authority for items not automatically ratable under the DPAS, should promptly seek special priorities assistance in accordance with agency procedures (see 15 CFR 700.50-700.55 and 700.80). (h) (h) The Department of Commerce may take specific official actions (Ratings Authorizations, Directives, Letters of Understanding, Administrative Subpoenas, Demands for Information, and Inspection Authorizations) to implement or enforce the provisions of the DPAS (see 15 CFR 700.60-700.71). (i) (i) Contracting officers shall report promptly any violations of the DPAS in accordance with agency procedures to the Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 3876, Washington, DC 20230, Ref: DPAS; telephone: (202) 482-3634 or fax: (202) 482-5650.
52.233-2 Service of Protest. (a) (a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from ______________________. [Contracting Officer designate the official or location where a protest may be served on the Contracting Officer.] (b) (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within oneday of filing a protest with the GAO.
44.304 Surveillance. (a) (a) The ACO shall maintain a sufficient level of surveillance to ensure that the contractor is effectively managing its purchasing program. (b) (b) Surveillance shall be accomplished in accordance with a plan developed by the ACO with the assistance of subcontracting, audit, pricing, technical, or other specialists as necessary. The plan should cover pertinent phases of a contractor’s purchasing system (preaward, postaward, performance, and contract completion) and pertinent operations that affect the contractor’s purchasing and subcontracting. The plan should also provide for reviewing the effectiveness of the contractor’s corrective actions taken as a result of previous Government recommendations. Duplicative reviews of the same areas by CPSR and other surveillance monitors should be avoided.
Subpart 9.6 - Contractor Team Arrangements No subsections found.
42.1102 Applicability. No subsections found.
26.601 Purpose. No subsections found.
30.201-5 Waiver. (a) (a) The head of the agency- (b) (b) The head of the agency may grant a waiver when one of the following conditions exists: (c) (c) When one of the conditions in paragraph (b) of this subsection exists, the request for waiver should include the following: (d) (d) When neither of the conditions in paragraph (b) of this subsection exists, the waiver request must be prepared in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.201-5(e)  and submitted to the CAS Board. (e) (e) Each agency must report any waivers granted under paragraph (a) of this subsection to the CAS Board, on a fiscal year basis, not later than 90 days after the close of the Government’s fiscal year.
15.304 Evaluation factors and significant subfactors. (a) (a) The award decision is based on evaluation factors and significant subfactors that are tailored to the acquisition. (b) (b) Evaluation factors and significant subfactors must- (c) (c) The evaluation factors and significant subfactors that apply to an acquisition and their relative importance, are within the broad discretion of agency acquisition officials, subject to the following requirements: (d) (d) All factors and significant subfactors that will affect contract award and their relative importance shall be stated clearly in the solicitation (10 U.S.C. 3206(b)(1) and 41 U.S.C. 3306(b)(1)) (see 15.204-5(c)). The rating method need not be disclosed in the solicitation. The general approach for evaluating past performance information shall be described. (e) (e) Unless the exception at paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section applies, the solicitation shall also state, at a minimum, whether all evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined, are—
49.109-3 Government property. No subsections found.
4.704 Calculation of retention periods. (a) (a) The retention periods in 4.705 are calculated from the end of the contractor’s fiscal year in which an entry is made charging or allocating a cost to a Government contract or subcontract. If a specific record contains a series of entries, the retention period is calculated from the end of the contractor’s fiscal year in which the final entry is made. The contractor should cut off the records in annual blocks and retain them for block disposal under the prescribed retention periods. (b) (b) When records generated during a prior contract are relied upon by a contractor for certified cost or pricing data in negotiating a succeeding contract, the prescribed periods shall run from the date of the succeeding contract. (c) (c) If two or more of the record categories described in 4.705 are interfiled and screening for disposal is not practical, the contractor shall retain the entire record series for the longest period prescribed for any category of records.
49.402-7 Other damages. (a) (a) If the contracting officer terminates a contract for default or follows a course of action instead of termination for default (see 49.402-4), the contracting officer promptly must assess and demand any liquidated damages to which the Government is entitled under the contract. Under the contract clause at 52.211-11, these damages are in addition to any excess repurchase costs. (b) (b) If the Government has suffered any other ascertainable damages, including administrative costs, as a result of the contractor’s default, the contracting officer must, on the basis of legal advice, take appropriate action as prescribed in subpart  32.6 to assert the Government’s demand for the damages.
Subpart 23.2 - Energy Savings Performance Contracts No subsections found.
3.808 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the provision at 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions, in solicitations expected to exceed $150,000. (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.203-12, Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions, in solicitations and contracts expected to exceed $150,000.
52.211-6 Brand Name or Equal. (a) (a) If an item in this solicitation is identified as "brand name or equal," the purchase description reflects the characteristics and level of quality that will satisfy the Government’s needs. The salient physical, functional, or performance characteristics that "equal" products must meet are specified in the solicitation. (b) (b) To be considered for award, offers of "equal" products, including "equal" products of the brand name manufacturer, must- (c) (c) The Contracting Officer will evaluate "equal" products on the basis of information furnished by the offeror or identified in the offer and reasonably available to the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer is not responsible for locating or obtaining any information not identified in the offer. (d) (d) Unless the offeror clearly indicates in its offer that the product being offered is an "equal" product, the offeror shall provide the brand name product referenced in the solicitation.
18.103 Synopses of proposed contract actions. No subsections found.
45.402 Title to contractor-acquired property. (a) (a) Title vests in the Government for all property acquired or fabricated by the contractor in accordance with the financing provisions or other specific requirements for passage of title in the contract. Under fixed-price type contracts, in the absence of financing provisions or other specific requirements for passage of title in the contract, the contractor retains title to all property acquired by the contractor for use on the contract, except for property identified as a deliverable end item. If a deliverable item is to be retained by the contractor for use after inspection and acceptance by the Government, it shall be made accountable to the contract through a contract modification listing the item as Government-furnished property. (b) (b) Under cost type and time-and-material contracts, the Government acquires title to all property to which the contractor is entitled to reimbursement, in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of clause 52.245-1.
52.209-1 Qualification Requirements. (a) (a) Definition. "Qualification requirement," as used in this clause, means a Government requirement for testing or other quality assurance demonstration that must be completed before award. (b) (b) One or more qualification requirements apply to the supplies or services covered by this contract. For those supplies or services requiring qualification, whether the covered product or service is an end item under this contract or simply a component of an end item, the product, manufacturer, or source must have demonstrated that it meets the standards prescribed for qualification before award of this contract. The product, manufacturer, or source must be qualified at the time of award whether or not the name of the product, manufacturer, or source is actually included on a qualified products list, qualified manufacturers list, or qualified bidders list. Offerors should contact the agency activity designated below to obtain all requirements that they or their products or services, or their subcontractors or their products or services, must satisfy to become qualified and to arrange for an opportunity to demonstrate their abilities to meet the standards specified for qualification. (c) (c) If an offeror, manufacturer, source, product or service covered by a qualification requirement has already met the standards specified, the relevant information noted below should be provided. (d) (d) Even though a product or service subject to a qualification requirement is not itself an end item under this contract, the product, manufacturer, or source must nevertheless be qualified at the time of award of this contract. This is necessary whether the Contractor or a subcontractor will ultimately provide the product or service in question. If, after award, the Contracting Officer discovers that an applicable qualification requirement was not in fact met at the time of award, the Contracting Officer may either terminate this contract for default or allow performance to continue if adequate consideration is offered and the action is determined to be otherwise in the Government’s best interests. (e) (e) If an offeror, manufacturer, source, product or service has met the qualification requirement but is not yet on a qualified products list, qualified manufacturers list, or qualified bidders list, the offeror must submit evidence of qualification prior to award of this contract. Unless determined to be in the Government’s interest, award of this contract shall not be delayed to permit an offeror to submit evidence of qualification. (f) (f) Any change in location or ownership of the plant where a previously qualified product or service was manufactured or performed requires reevaluation of the qualification. Similarly, any change in location or ownership of a previously qualified manufacturer or source requires reevaluation of the qualification. The reevaluation must be accomplished before the date of award.
9.503 Waiver. No subsections found.
Part 30 - Cost Accounting Standards Administration No subsections found.
52.232-26 Prompt Payment for Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts. (a) (a) Invoice payments- (b) (b) Contract financing payments. If this contract provides for contract financing, the Government will make contract financing payments in accordance with the applicable contract financing clause. (c) (c) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-
52.229 [Reserved] No subsections found.
46.312 Construction contracts. No subsections found.
32.503-3 Initiation of progress payments and review of accounting system. (a) (a) For contractors that the administrative contracting officer (ACO) has found by previous experience or recent audit review (within the last 12 months) to be- (b) (b) For all other contractors, the ACO shall not approve progress payments before determining (1) that (i) the contractor will be capable of liquidating any progress payments or (ii) the Government is otherwise protected against loss by additional protective provisions, and (2) that the contractor’s accounting system and controls are adequate for proper administration of progress payments. The services of the responsible audit agency or office should be used to the greatest extent practicable. However, if the auditor so advises, a complete audit may not be necessary.
22.406-2 Wages, fringe benefits, and overtime. (a) (a) In computing wages paid to a laborer or mechanic, the contractor may include only the following items: (b) (b) (c) (c) In computing required overtime payments, (i.e.,1 1/2 times the basic hourly rate of pay) the contractor shall use the basic hourly rate of pay in the wage determination, or the basic hourly rate actually paid by the contractor, if higher. The basic rate of pay includes employee contributions to fringe benefits, but excludes the contractor’s contributions, costs, or payment of cash equivalents for fringe benefits. Overtime shall not be computed on a rate lower than the basic hourly rate in the wage determination.
52.222-45 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 46.3 - Contract Clauses No subsections found.
52.247-1 Commercial Bill of Lading Notations. (a) (a) If the Government is shown as the consignor or the consignee, the annotation shall be: (b) (b) If the Government is not shown as the consignor or the consignee, the annotation shall be:
32.110 Payment of subcontractors under cost-reimbursement prime contracts. (a) (a) The payments are made under the criteria in subpart  32.5 for customary progress payments based on costs, 32.202-1 for commercial product or commercial service purchase financing, or 32.1003 for performance-based payments, as applicable. (b) (b) If customary progress payments are made, the payments do not exceed the progress payment rate in 32.501-1, unless unusual progress payments to the subcontractor have been approved in accordance with 32.501-2. (c) (c) If customary progress payments are made, the subcontractor complies with the liquidation principles of 32.503-8, 32.503-9, and 32.503-10. (d) (d) If performance-based payments are made, the subcontractor complies with the liquidation principles of 32.1004(d). (e) (e) The subcontract contains financing payments terms as prescribed in this part.
Subpart 19.1 - Size Standards No subsections found.
52.247-28 Contractor’s Invoices. No subsections found.
42.709-7 Contract clause. No subsections found.
5.002 Policy. (a) (a) Increase competition; (b) (b) Broaden industry participation in meeting Government requirements; and (c) (c) Assist small business concerns, veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns, and women-owned small business concerns in obtaining contracts and subcontracts.
15.101-1 Tradeoff process. (a) (a) A tradeoff process is appropriate when it may be in the best interest of the Government to consider award to other than the lowest priced offeror or other than the highest technically rated offeror. (b) (b) When using a tradeoff process, the following apply: (c) (c) This process permits tradeoffs among cost or price and non-cost factors and allows the Government to accept other than the lowest priced proposal. The perceived benefits of the higher priced proposal shall merit the additional cost, and the rationale for tradeoffs must be documented in the file in accordance with 15.406.
49.103 Methods of settlement. No subsections found.
8.406-1 Order placement. (a) (a) Ordering activities may place orders orally, except for- (b) (b) Ordering activities may use Optional Form 347, an agency-prescribed form, or an established electronic communications format to order supplies or services from schedule contracts. (c) (c) The ordering activity shall place an order directly with the contractor in accordance with the terms and conditions of the price lists (see 8.402(b)). Prior to placement of the order, the ordering activity shall ensure that the regulatory and statutory requirements of the requiring agency have been applied. (d) (d) Orders shall include the following information in addition to any information required by the schedule contract:
14.402 Opening of bids. No subsections found.
33.208 Interest on claims. (a) (a) The Government shall pay interest on a contractor’s claim on the amount found due and unpaid from the date that- (b) (b) Simple interest on claims shall be paid at the rate, fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in the Disputes statute, which is applicable to the period during which the contracting officer receives the claim and then at the rate applicable for each 6-month period as fixed by the Treasury Secretary during the pendency of the claim. (See the clause at 52.232-17 for the right of the Government to collect interest on its claims against a contractor.) (c) (c) With regard to claims having defective certifications, interest shall be paid from either the date that the contracting officer initially receives the claim or October 29,1992, whichever is later. However, if a contractor has provided a proper certificate prior to October 29,1992, after submission of a defective certificate, interest shall be paid from the date of receipt by the Government of a proper certificate.
23.400 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Obtaining information needed for Government compliance with right-to-know laws and pollution prevention requirements; (b) (b) Contractor compliance with environmental management systems; and (c) (c) Ensuring waste reduction at Federal facilities.
32.1108 Payment by Governmentwide commercial purchase card. (a) (a) The clause at 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party, governs when a contractor submits a charge against the purchase card for contract payment. The clause provides that the contractor shall make such payment requests by a charge to a Government account with the third party at the time the payment clause(s) of the contract authorizes the contractor to submit a request for payment, and for the amount due in accordance with the terms of the contract. To the extent that such a payment would otherwise be approved, the charge against the purchase card should not be disputed when the charge is reported to the Government by the third party. To the extent that such payment would otherwise not have been approved, an authorized individual (see 1.603-3) shall take action to remove the charge, such as by disputing the charge with the third party or by requesting that the contractor credit the charge back to the Government under the contract. (b) (b) (c) (c) The clause at 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party, requires that the contract-
14.203-3 Master solicitation. (a) (a) Make available copies of the master solicitation on request; and (b) (b) Provide the cognizant contract administration activity a current copy of the master solicitation.
47.303-9 F.o.b. vessel, port of shipment. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. vessel, port shipment" means free of expense to the Government loaded, stowed, and trimmed on board the ocean vessel at the specified port of shipment. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-37, F.o.b. Vessel, Port of Shipment, when the delivery term is f.o.b. vessel, port of shipment.
16.203 Fixed-price contracts with economic price adjustment. No subsections found.
3.907-4 Procedures for investigating complaints. No subsections found.
52.214 [Reserved] No subsections found.
33.001 General. No subsections found.
52.245-8 [Reserved] No subsections found.
47.203 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.247-15 Contractor Responsibility for Loading and Unloading. (a) (a) (b) (b) If loading is the responsibility of the Contractor, the Contractor shall perform all shoring, blocking, and bracing. The Contractor shall provide dunnage at the Contractor’s expense.
22.1901 Definitions. No subsections found.
31.205-43 Trade, business, technical and professional activity costs. (a) (a) Memberships in trade, business, technical, and professional organizations. (b) (b) Subscriptions to trade, business, professional, or other technical periodicals. (c) (c) When the principal purpose of a meeting, convention, conference, symposium, or seminar is the dissemination of trade, business, technical or professional information or the stimulation of production or improved productivity-
Subpart 36.7 - Standard and Optional Forms for Contracting for Construction, Architect-Engineer Services, and Dismantling, Demolition, or Removal of Improvements No subsections found.
52.215-1 Instructions to Offerors-Competitive Acquisition. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision- (b) (b) Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and conditions that are not amended remain unchanged. Offerors shall acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and time specified in the amendment(s). (c) (c)  Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals. (d) (d) Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the offeror). (e) (e) Restriction on disclosure and use of data. Offerors that include in their proposals data that they do not want disclosed to the public for any purpose, or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes, shall- (f) (f)  Contract award.
52.247-31 F.o.b. Origin, Freight Allowed. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. origin, freight allowed," as used in this clause, means- (b) (b) The Contractor shall- (c) (c) These Contractor responsibilities are specified for performance at the plant or plants at which the supplies are to be finally inspected and accepted, unless the facilities for shipment by carrier’s equipment are not available at the Contractor’s plant, in which case the responsibilities shall be performed f.o.b. the point or points in the same or nearest city where the specified carrier’s facilities are available; subject, however, to the following qualifications:
48.202 Clause for construction contracts. No subsections found.
52.204-3 Taxpayer Identification. (a) (a) Definitions. (b) (b) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C.6041, 6041 A, and 6050 M, and implementing regulations issued by the IRS. If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 4.904, the failure or refusal by the offeror to furnish the information may result in a 31 percent reduction of payments otherwise due under the contract. (c) (c) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror’s relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror’s TIN. (d) (d) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). (e) (e) Type of organization. (f) (f) Common parent.
52.223-11 Ozone-Depleting Substances and High Global Warming Potential Hydrofluorocarbons. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause– (b) (b) The Contractor shall label products that contain or are manufactured with ozone-depleting substances in the manner and to the extent required by 42 U.S.C. 7671j (b), (c), (d), and (e) and 40 CFR part 82, subpart E, as follows: (c) (c) The Contractor shall refer to EPA's SNAP program to identify alternatives. The SNAP list of alternatives is found at 40 CFR part 82, subpart G, with supplemental tables available at https://www.epa.gov/​snap/​.
32.109 Termination financing. No subsections found.
33.211 Contracting officer’s decision. (a) (a) When a claim by or against a contractor cannot be satisfied or settled by mutual agreement and a decision on the claim is necessary, the contracting officer shall- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall furnish a copy of the decision to the contractor by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any other method that provides evidence of receipt. This requirement shall apply to decisions on claims initiated by or against the contractor. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall issue the decision within the following statutory time limitations: (d) (d) The contracting officer shall issue a decision within a reasonable time, taking into account- (e) (e) The contracting officer shall have no obligation to render a final decision on any claim exceeding $100,000 which contains a defective certification, if within 60 days after receipt of the claim, the contracting officer notifies the contractor, in writing, of the reasons why any attempted certification was found to be defective. (f) (f) In the event of undue delay by the contracting officer in rendering a decision on a claim, the contractor may request the tribunal concerned to direct the contracting officer to issue a decision in a specified time period determined by the tribunal. (g) (g) Any failure of the contracting officer to issue a decision within the required time periods will be deemed a decision by the contracting officer denying the claim and will authorize the contractor to file an appeal or suit on the claim. (h) (h) The amount determined payable under the decision, less any portion already paid, should be paid, if otherwise proper, without awaiting contractor action concerning appeal. Such payment shall be without prejudice to the rights of either party.
4.1703 Reporting requirements. (a) (a) Thresholds. (b) (b) Agency reporting responsibilities.
Subpart 27.5 - Foreign License and Technical Assistance Agreements No subsections found.
52.226-7 Drug-Free Workplace. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) The Contractor, if other than an individual, shall-within 30 days after award (unless a longer period is agreed to in writing for contracts of 30 days or more performance duration), or as soon as possible for contracts of less than 30 days performance duration- (c) (c) The Contractor, if an individual, agrees by award of the contract or acceptance of a purchase order, not to engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance while performing this contract. (d) (d) In addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contractor’s failure to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this clause may, pursuant to FAR 26.505, render the Contractor subject to suspension of contract payments, termination of the contract or default, and suspension or debarment.
52.230 [Reserved] No subsections found.
26.206 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.226-3, Disaster or Emergency Area Representation, in solicitations involving the local area set-aside. For commercial products and commercial services, see 12.301(e)(5). (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-aside in solicitations and contracts involving local area set-asides. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area, in all solicitations and contracts that involve local area set-asides.
Subpart 14.3 - Submission of Bids No subsections found.
11.204 Solicitation provisions. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.211-1, Availability of Specifications Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, in solicitations that cite specifications listed in the Index that are not furnished with the solicitation. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.211-2, Availability of Defense Specifications, Standards, and Data Item Descriptions in the Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System (ASSIST) website, in solicitations that cite specifications available in ASSIST that are not furnished with the solicitation. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.211-3, Availability of Specifications Not Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, in solicitations that cite specifications that are not listed in the Index and are not furnished with the solicitation, but may be obtained from a designated source. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.211-4, Availability for Examination of Specifications Not Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, in solicitations that cite specifications that are not listed in the Index and are available for examination at a specified location.
52.237-5 Payment by Contractor to Government. (a) (a) The Contractor shall receive title to all property to be dismantled, demolished, or removed under this contract and not specifically designated in the Schedule as being retained by the Government. The title shall vest in the Contractor immediately upon the Government’s issuing the notice of award, or if a performance bond is to be furnished, upon the Government’s issuing a notice to proceed with the work. The Government shall not be responsible for the condition of, or any loss or damage to, the property. (b) (b) The Contractor shall promptly remove from the site all property acquired by the Contractor. The Government shall not permit storage of property on the site beyond the completion date. If the Contractor does not wish to remove from the site any of the property acquired, the Contracting Officer may, upon written request, grant the Contractor permission to leave the property on the premises. As a condition of the granting of the permission, the Contractor agrees to waive any right, title, claim, or interest in and to the property. (c) (c) The Contractor shall perform the work called for under this contract and within ________ days of receipt of notice of award, unless otherwise provided in the Schedule and before proceeding with the work, shall pay _________ [fill in amount]. Checks shall be made payable to the office designated in the contract and shall be forwarded to the Contracting Officer.
8.602 Policy. (a) (a) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3905 and Section 637 of Division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 (Pub. L. 108-447) (18 U.S.C. 4124 note), and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, agencies shall- (b) (b) The procedures in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply if an exception in 8.605(b) through (g) applies. (c) (c) In some cases where FPI and an AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency produce identical items (see 8.603), FPI grants a waiver to permit the Government to purchase a portion of its requirement from the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency. When this occurs, the portion of the requirement for which FPI has granted a waiver- (d) (d) Disputes regarding price, quality, character, or suitability of supplies produced by FPI, except for determinations under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, are subject to arbitration as specified in 18 U.S.C. 4124. The statute provides that the arbitration shall be conducted by a board consisting of the Comptroller General of the United States, the Administrator of General Services, and the President, or their representatives. The decisions of the board are final and binding on all parties.
19.202 Specific policies. No subsections found.
Part 29 - Taxes No subsections found.
36.607 Release of information on firm selection. (a) (a) After final selection has taken place, the contracting officer may release information identifying only the architect-engineer firm with which a contract will be negotiated for certain work. The work should be described in any release only in general terms, unless information relating to the work is classified. If negotiations are terminated without awarding a contract to the highest rated firm, the contracting officer may release that information and state that negotiations will be undertaken with another (named) architect-engineer firm. When an award has been made, the contracting officer may release award information (see 5.401). (b) (b) Debriefings of successful and unsuccessful firms will be held after final selection has taken place and will be conducted, to the extent practicable, in accordance with 15.503, 15.506(b) through (f), and 15.507(c). Note that 15.506(d)(2) through (d)(5) do not apply to architect-engineer contracts.
36.601-3 Applicable contracting procedures. (a) (a) (b) (b) Sources for contracts for architect-engineer services shall be selected in accordance with the procedures in this subpart rather than the solicitation or source selection procedures prescribed in parts  13, 14, and 15 of this regulation. (c) (c) When the contract statement of work includes both architect-engineer services and other services, the contracting officer shall follow the procedures in this subpart if the statement of work, substantially or to a dominant extent, specifies performance or approval by a registered or licensed architect or engineer. If the statement of work does not specify such performance or approval, the contracting officer shall follow the procedures in parts  13, 14, or 15. (d) (d) Other than "incidental services" as specified in the definition of architect-engineer services in 2.101 and in 36.601-4(a)(3), services that do not require performance by a registered or licensed architect or engineer, notwithstanding the fact that architect-engineers also may perform those services, should be acquired pursuant to parts  13, 14, and 15.
46.102 Policy. (a) (a) Contracts include inspection and other quality requirements, including warranty clauses when appropriate, that are determined necessary to protect the Government’s interest; (b) (b) Supplies or services (including commercial services) tendered by contractors meet contract requirements; (c) (c) Government contract quality assurance is conducted before acceptance (except as otherwise provided in this part), by or under the direction of Government personnel; (d) (d) No contract precludes the Government from performing inspection; (e) (e) Nonconforming supplies or services are rejected, except as otherwise provided in 46.407; (f) (f) Contracts for commercial products rely on a contractor’s existing quality assurance system as a substitute for compliance with Government inspection and testing before tender for acceptance unless customary market practices for the commercial product being acquired permit in-process inspection (41 U.S.C. 3307). Any in-process inspection by the Government shall be conducted in a manner consistent with commercial practice; and (g) (g) The quality assurance and acceptance services of other agencies are used when this will be effective, economical, or otherwise in the Government’s interest (see 42.002 and subpart  42.2.
52.222-61 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
28.106 Administration. No subsections found.
32.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.217-8 Option to Extend Services. No subsections found.
17.102 Applicability. No subsections found.
15.204-1 Uniform contract format. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall prepare solicitations and resulting contracts using the uniform contract format outlined in Table 15-1 of this subsection. (b) (b) Solicitations using the uniform contract format shall include Parts I, II, III, and IV (see 15.204-2 through 15.204-5). Upon award, contracting officers shall not physically include Part IV in the resulting contract, but shall retain it in the contract file. (See 4.1201(c).) The representations and certifications are incorporated by reference in the contract by using 52.204-19 (see 4.1202(b)) or for acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services see 52.212-4(v).
18.127 Extraordinary contractual actions. (a) (a) Amending contracts without consideration (see 50.103-2(a)); (b) (b) Correcting or mitigating mistakes in a contract (see 50.103-2(b)); and (c) (c) Formalizing informal commitments (See 50.103-2(c)).
6.502 Duties and responsibilities. (a) (a) Agency and procuring activity advocates for competition are responsible for— (b) (b) Agency advocates for competition shall—
22.1403 Waivers. (a) (a) The Director of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs of the U.S. Department of Labor (Director of OFCCP), may waive the application of any or all of the terms of the clause at 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities, for- (b) (b) The head of an agency may waive any requirement in this subpart when it is determined that the contract is essential to the national security, and that its award without complying with such requirements is necessary to the national security. Upon making such a determination, the head of the agency shall notify the Director of OFCCP in writing within 30 days. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall submit requests for waivers in accordance with agency procedures. (d) (d) A waiver granted for a particular class of contracts may be withdrawn for any contract within that class whenever considered necessary by the Director of OFCCP to achieve the purposes of the Act. The withdrawal shall not apply to contracts awarded before the withdrawal. The withdrawal shall not apply to solicitations under any means of sealed bidding unless it is made more than 10 days before the date set for bid opening.
Part 14 - Sealed Bidding No subsections found.
37.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
25.301 Contractor personnel in a designated operational area or supporting a diplomatic or consular mission outside the United States. No subsections found.
12.303 Contract format. (a) (a) Standard Form (SF) 1449; (b) (b) Continuation of any block from SF 1449, such as- (c) (c) Contract clauses- (d) (d) Any contract documents, exhibits or attachments; and (e) (e) Solicitation provisions-
3.703 Authority. (a) (a) Section 1(e) of Public Law 87-849, 18 U.S.C.218 ("the Act"), empowers the President or the heads of executive agencies acting under regulations prescribed by the President, to declare void and rescind contracts and other transactions enumerated in the Act, in relation to which there has been a final conviction for bribery, conflict of interest, or any other violation of Chapter 11 of Title 18 of the United States Code (18 U.S.C. 201-224). Executive Order 12448, November 4,1983, delegates the President’s authority under the Act to the heads of the executive agencies and military departments. (b) (b) 41 U.S.C. 2105(c) requires a Federal agency, upon receiving information that a contractor or a person has violated 41 U.S.C. 2102, to consider rescission of a contract with respect to which-
52.204-27 Prohibition on a ByteDance Covered Application. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Prohibition. Section 102 of Division R of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328), the No TikTok on Government Devices Act, and its implementing guidance under Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-23-13, dated February 27, 2023, “No TikTok on Government Devices” Implementation Guidance, collectively prohibit the presence or use of a covered application on executive agency information technology, including certain equipment used by Federal contractors. The Contractor is prohibited from having or using a covered application on any information technology owned or managed by the Government, or on any information technology used or provided by the Contractor under this contract, including equipment provided by the Contractor’s employees; however, this prohibition does not apply if the Contracting Officer provides written notification to the Contractor that an exception has been granted in accordance with OMB Memorandum M-23-13. (c) (c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts, including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
32.304-2 Certificate of eligibility. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall prepare the certificate of eligibility for a contract that the contracting officer deems to be of material consequence, when- (b) (b) The agency shall evaluate the relevant data, including the certificate of eligibility, the accompanying data, and any other relevant information on the contractor’s financial status and performance, to determine whether authorization of a loan guarantee would be in the Government’s interest. (c) (c) If the contractor has several major national defense contracts, it is normally not necessary to evaluate the eligibility of relatively minor contracts. The determination of eligibility should be processed, without delay, based on the preponderance of the amount of the contracts. (d) (d) The certificate of eligibility shall include the following determinations: (e) (e) The contracting officer shall consider the following factors in determining if a practicable alternate source exists: (f) (f) The contracting officer shall attach sufficient data to the certificate of eligibility to support the determinations made. Available pertinent information shall be included on- (g) (g) If the contracting officer determines that a certificate of eligibility is not justified, the facts and reasons supporting that conclusion shall be documented and furnished to the agency contract finance office. (h) (h) The guaranteeing agency shall review the proposed guarantee terms and conditions. If they are considered appropriate, the guaranteeing agency shall complete a standard form of authorization as prescribed by the Federal Reserve Board. The agency shall transmit the authorization through the Federal Reserve Board to the Federal Reserve Bank. The Bank is authorized to execute and deliver to the financing institution a standard form of guarantee agreement, with the terms and conditions approved for the particular case. The financing institution will then make the loan. (i) (i) Substantially the same procedure may be followed for the application of an offeror who is actively negotiating or bidding for a defense contract, except that the guarantee shall not be authorized until the contract has been executed. (j) (j) The contracting officer shall report to the agency contract finance office any information about the contractor that would have a potentially adverse impact on a pending guarantee application. The contracting officer is not required, however, to initiate any special investigation for this purpose. (k) (k) With regard to existing contracts, the agency shall not consider the percentage of guarantee requested by the financing institution in determining the contractor’s eligibility.
51.103 Ordering from Government supply sources. (a) (a) Contractors placing orders under Federal Supply Schedules shall follow the terms of the applicable schedule and authorization and include with each order- (b) (b) Contractors placing orders for Government stock shall-
16.402-4 Structuring multiple-incentive contracts. (a) (a) Motivate the contractor to strive for outstanding results in all incentive areas; and (b) (b) Compel trade-off decisions among the incentive areas, consistent with the Government’s overall objectives for the acquisition. Because of the interdependency of the Government’s cost, the technical performance, and the delivery goals, a contract that emphasizes only one of the goals may jeopardize control over the others. Because outstanding results may not be attainable for each of the incentive areas, all multiple-incentive contracts must include a cost incentive (or constraint) that operates to preclude rewarding a contractor for superior technical performance or delivery results when the cost of those results outweighs their value to the Government.
7.204 Responsibilities of contracting officers. (a) (a) Contracting officers are responsible for transmitting offeror responses to the solicitation provision at 52.207-4 to appropriate inventory management/requirements development activities in accordance with agency procedures. The economic purchase quantity data so obtained are intended to assist inventory managers in establishing and evaluating economic order quantities for supplies under their cognizance. (b) (b) In recognition of the fact that economic purchase quantity data furnished by offerors are only one of many data inputs required for determining the most economical order quantities, contracting officers should generally take no action to revise quantities to be acquired in connection with the instant procurement. However, if a significant price variation is evident from offeror responses, and the potential for significant savings is apparent, the contracting officer shall consult with the cognizant inventory manager or requirements development activity before proceeding with an award or negotiations. If this consultation discloses that the Government should be ordering an item of supply in different quantities and the inventory manager/requirements development activity concurs, the solicitation for the item should be amended or canceled and a new requisition should be obtained.
36.303-2 Phase Two. (a) (a) Phase Two of the solicitation(s) shall be prepared in accordance with part  15, and include phase-two evaluation factors, developed in accordance with 15.304. Examples of potential phase-two technical evaluation factors include design concepts, management approach, key personnel, and proposed technical solutions. (b) (b) Phase Two of the solicitation(s) shall require submission of technical and price proposals, which shall be evaluated separately, in accordance with part  15.
Subpart 4.4 - Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry No subsections found.
52.252-4 Alterations in Contract. No subsections found.
39.201 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart implements section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board's (U.S. Access Board) information and communication technology (ICT) accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194.1. (b) (b) Further information on Section 508 is available via the Internet at http://www.section508.gov. (c) (c) When acquiring ICT, agencies must ensure that—
47.305-7 Quantity analysis, direct delivery, and reduction of crosshauling and backhauling. (a) (a) Quantity analysis. (b) (b) Direct delivery. When it is the usual practice of a requiring activity to acquire supplies in large quantities for shipment to a central point and subsequent distribution to using activities, as needed, consideration shall be given, if sufficient quantities are involved to warrant scheduling direct delivery, to the feasibility of providing for direct delivery from the contractor to the using activity, thereby reducing the cost of transportation and handling. (c) (c) Crosshauling and backhauling. The contracting officer shall select distribution and transshipment facilities intermediate to origins and ultimate destinations to reduce crosshauling and backhauling; i.e., to the transportation of personal property of the same kind in opposite directions or the return of the property to or through areas previously traversed in shipment.
52.243-6 Change Order Accounting. No subsections found.
5.405 Exchange of acquisition information. (a) (a) When the same item or class of items is being acquired by more than one agency, or by more than one contracting activity within an agency, the exchange and coordination of pertinent information, particularly cost and pricing data, between these agencies or contracting activities is necessary to promote uniformity of treatment of major issues and the resolution of particularly difficult or controversial issues. The exchange and coordination of information is particularly beneficial during the period of acquisition planning, presolicitation, evaluation, and pre-award survey. (b) (b) When substantial acquisitions of major items are involved or when the contracting activity deems it desirable, the contracting activity shall request appropriate information (on both the end item and on major subcontracted components) from other agencies or contracting activities responsible for acquiring similar items. Each agency or contracting activity receiving such a request shall furnish the information requested. The contracting officer, early in a negotiation of a contract, or in connection with the review of a subcontract, shall request the contractor to furnish information as to the contractor’s or subcontractor’s previous Government contracts and subcontracts for the same or similar end items and major subcontractor components.
49.504 Termination of fixed-price contracts for default. (a) (a) (b) (b) Research and development. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.249-9, Default (Fixed-Price Research and Development), in solicitations and contracts for research and development when a fixed-price contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, except those with educational or nonprofit institutions on a no-profit basis. The contracting officer may use the clause when the contract amount is at or below the simplified acquisition threshold;, if appropriate (e.g., if the contracting officer believes that key personnel essential to the work may be devoted to other programs). (c) (c)
13.302-1 General. (a) (a) Except as provided under the unpriced purchase order method (see 13.302-2), purchase orders generally are issued on a fixed-price basis. See 12.207 for acquisition of commercial products and commercial services. (b) (b) Purchase orders shall- (c) (c) The contracting officer’s signature on purchase orders shall be in accordance with 4.101 and the definitions at 2.101. Facsimile and electronic signature may be used in the production of purchase orders by automated methods. (d) (d) Limit the distribution of copies of purchase orders and related forms to the minimum deemed essential for administration and transmission of contractual information. (e) (e) In accordance with 31 U.S.C.3332, electronic funds transfer (EFT) is required for payments except as provided in 32.1110. See subpart  32.11 for instructions for use of the appropriate clause in purchase orders. When obtaining oral quotes, the contracting officer shall inform the quoter of the EFT clause that will be in any resulting purchase order.
Subpart 42.4 - Correspondence and Visits No subsections found.
9.104 Standards. No subsections found.
14.404-2 Rejection of individual bids. (a) (a) Any bid that fails to conform to the essential requirements of the invitation for bids shall be rejected. (b) (b) Any bid that does not conform to the applicable specifications shall be rejected unless the invitation authorized the submission of alternate bids and the supplies offered as alternates meet the requirements specified in the invitation. (c) (c) Any bid that fails to conform to the delivery schedule or permissible alternates stated in the invitation shall be rejected. (d) (d) A bid shall be rejected when the bidder imposes conditions that would modify requirements of the invitation or limit the bidder’s liability to the Government, since to allow the bidder to impose such conditions would be prejudicial to other bidders. For example, bids shall be rejected in which the bidder- (e) (e) A low bidder may be requested to delete objectionable conditions from a bid provided the conditions do not go to the substance, as distinguished from the form, of the bid, or work an injustice on other bidders. A condition goes to the substance of a bid where it affects price, quantity, quality, or delivery of the items offered. (f) (f) Any bid may be rejected if the contracting officer determines in writing that it is unreasonable as to price. Unreasonableness of price includes not only the total price of the bid, but the prices for individual line items as well. (g) (g) Any bid may be rejected if the prices for any line items or subline items are materially unbalanced (see 15.404-1(g)). (h) (h) Bids received from any person or concern that is suspended, debarred, proposed for debarment or declared ineligible as of the bid opening date shall be rejected unless a compelling reason determination is made (see subpart  9.4). (i) (i) Low bids received from concerns determined to be not responsible pursuant to subpart 9.1 shall be rejected (but if a bidder is a small business concern, see19.6 with respect to certificates of competency). (j) (j) When a bid guarantee is required and a bidder fails to furnish the guarantee in accordance with the requirements of the invitation for bids, the bid shall be rejected, except as otherwise provided in 28.101-4. (k) (k) The originals of all rejected bids, and any written findings with respect to such rejections, shall be preserved with the papers relating to the acquisition. (l) (l) After submitting a bid, if all of a bidder’s assets or that part related to the bid are transferred during the period between the bid opening and the award, the transferee may not be able to take over the bid. Accordingly, the contracting officer shall reject the bid unless the transfer is effected by merger, operation of law, or other means not barred by 41 U.S.C.6305 or 31 U.S.C. 3727.
1.105-3 Copies. No subsections found.
22.1020 Seniority lists. No subsections found.
1.102 Statement of guiding principles for the Federal Acquisition System. (a) (a) The vision for the Federal Acquisition System is to deliver on a timely basis the best value product or service to the customer, while maintaining the public’s trust and fulfilling public policy objectives. Participants in the acquisition process should work together as a team and should be empowered to make decisions within their area of responsibility. (b) (b) The Federal Acquisition System will- (c) (c) The Acquisition Team consists of all participants in Government acquisition including not only representatives of the technical, supply, and procurement communities but also the customers they serve, and the contractors who provide the products and services. (d) (d) The role of each member of the Acquisition Team is to exercise personal initiative and sound business judgment in providing the best value product or service to meet the customer’s needs. In exercising initiative, Government members of the Acquisition Team may assume if a specific strategy, practice, policy or procedure is in the best interests of the Government and is not addressed in the FAR, nor prohibited by law (statute or case law), Executive order or other regulation, that the strategy, practice, policy or procedure is a permissible exercise of authority.
50.103-2 Types of contract adjustment. (a) (a) Amendments without consideration. (b) (b) Correcting mistakes. (c) (c) Formalizing informal commitments. Under certain circumstances, informal commitments may be formalized to permit payment to persons who have taken action without a formal contract; for example, when a person, responding to an agency official’s written or oral instructions and relying in good faith upon the official’s apparent authority to issue them, has furnished or arranged to furnish supplies or services to the agency, or to a defense contractor or subcontractor, without formal contractual coverage. Formalizing commitments under such circumstances normally will facilitate the national defense by assuring such persons that they will be treated fairly and paid expeditiously.
45.602-1 Inventory disposal schedules. (a) (a) Plant clearance officers should review and accept, or return for correction, inventory disposal schedules within 10 days following receipt from a contractor. Schedules that are completed in accordance with the instructions for Standard Form 1428 should be accepted. (b) (b) Plant clearance officers shall- (c) (c) The contractor may request the plant clearance officer’s approval to remove the Government property from an inventory schedule.
53.214 Sealed bidding. (a) (a) SF 26 (Rev. 12/2022), Award/Contract. SF 26 is prescribed for use in awarding sealed bid contracts for supplies or services in which bids were obtained on SF 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award, as specified in 14.408-1(d)(1). Block 18 may only be used for sealed-bid procurements. (b) (b) SF 30, Amendment of Solicitation/Modification of Contract. SF 30, prescribed in 53.243, shall be used in amending invitations for bids, as specified in 14.208(a). (c) (c) SF 33 (Rev. 12/2022), Solicitation, Offer and Award. SF 33 is prescribed for use in soliciting bids for supplies or services and for awarding the contracts that result from the bids, as specified in 14.201-2(a)(1), unless award is accomplished by  SF 26. (d) (d) SF 1447 (Rev. 12/2022), Solicitation/Contract. SF 1447 is prescribed for use in soliciting supplies or services and for awarding contracts that result from the bids. It shall be used when the simplified contract format is used (see 14.201-9) and may be used in place of the SF 26 or SF 33 with other solicitations and awards. Agencies may prescribe additional detailed instructions for use of the form. (e) (e) [Reserved] (f) (f) SF 1409 (Rev. 9/88), Abstract of Offers, and SF 1410 (9/88), Abstract of Offers-Continuation. SF 1409 and SF 1410 are prescribed for use in recording bids, as specified in 14.403(a). (g) (g) OF 17 (Rev. 12/93), Offer Label. OF 17 may be furnished with each invitation for bids to facilitate identification and handling of bids, as specified in 14.202-3(b). (h) (h) OF 336 (Rev.3/86), Continuation Sheet. OF 336 may be used as a continuation sheet in solicitations, as specified in 14.201-2(b).
32.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
22.609 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.214-9 [Reserved] No subsections found.
17.203 Solicitations. (a) (a) Solicitations shall include appropriate option provisions and clauses when resulting contracts will provide for the exercise of options (see 17.208). (b) (b) Solicitations containing option provisions shall state the basis of evaluation, either exclusive or inclusive of the option and, when appropriate, shall inform offerors that it is anticipated that the Government may exercise the option at time of award. (c) (c) Solicitations normally should allow option quantities to be offered without limitation as to price, and there shall be no limitation as to price if the option quantity is to be considered in the evaluation for award (see 17.206). (d) (d) Solicitations that allow the offer of options at unit prices which differ from the unit prices for the basic requirement shall state that offerors may offer varying prices for options, depending on the quantities actually ordered and the dates when ordered. (e) (e) If it is anticipated that the Government may exercise an option at the time of award and if the condition specified in paragraph (d) of this section applies, solicitations shall specify the price at which the Government will evaluate the option (highest option price offered or option price for specified requirements). (f) (f) Solicitations may, in unusual circumstances, require that options be offered at prices no higher than those for the initial requirement; e.g., when- (g) (g) Solicitations that require the offering of an option at prices no higher than those for the initial requirement shall- (h) (h) Include the value of options in determining if the acquisition will exceed the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement or Free Trade Agreement thresholds.
1.602-2 Responsibilities. (a) (a) Ensure that the requirements of 1.602-1(b) have been met, and that sufficient funds are available for obligation; (b) (b) Ensure that contractors receive impartial, fair, and equitable treatment; (c) (c) Request and consider the advice of specialists in audit, law, engineering, information security, transportation, and other fields, as appropriate; and (d) (d) Designate and authorize, in writing and in accordance with agency procedures, a contracting officer’s representative (COR) on all contracts and orders other than those that are firm-fixed price, and for firm-fixed-price contracts and orders as appropriate, unless the contracting officer retains and executes the COR duties. See 7.104(e). COR-
52.236-18 Work Oversight in Cost-Reimbursement Construction Contracts. No subsections found.
22.1702 Definitions. No subsections found.
42.704 Billing rates. (a) (a) The contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor responsible under 42.705 for establishing the final indirect cost rates also shall be responsible for determining the billing rates. (b) (b) The contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor shall establish billing rates on the basis of information resulting from recent review, previous rate audits or experience, or similar reliable data or experience of other contracting activities. In establishing billing rates, the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor should ensure that the billing rates are as close as possible to the final indirect cost rates anticipated for the contractor’s fiscal period, as adjusted for any unallowable costs. When the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor determines that the dollar value of contracts requiring use of billing rates does not warrant submission of a detailed billing rate proposal, the billing rates may be established by making appropriate adjustments from the prior year’s indirect cost experience to eliminate unallowable and nonrecurring costs and to reflect new or changed conditions. (c) (c) Once established, billing rates may be prospectively or retroactively revised by mutual agreement of the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) or auditor and the contractor at either party’s request, to prevent substantial overpayment or underpayment. When agreement cannot be reached, the billing rates may be unilaterally determined by the contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official). (d) (d) The elements of indirect cost and the base or bases used in computing billing rates shall not be construed as determinative of the indirect costs to be distributed or of the bases of distribution to be used in the final settlement. (e) (e) When the contractor provides to the cognizant contracting officer the certified final indirect cost rate proposal in accordance with 42.705-1(b) or 42.705-2(b), the contractor and the Government may mutually agree to revise billing rates to reflect the proposed indirect cost rates, as approved by the Government to reflect historically disallowed amounts from prior years’ audits, until the proposal has been audited and settled. The historical decrement will be determined by either the cognizant contracting officer (42.705-1(b)) or the cognizant auditor (42.705-2(b)).
36.506 Superintendence by the contractor. No subsections found.
28.103-2 Performance bonds. (a) (a) Performance bonds may be required for contracts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold when necessary to protect the Government’s interest. The following situations may warrant a performance bond: (b) (b) The Government may require additional performance bond protection when a contract price is increased. (c) (c) The contracting officer must determine the contractor’s responsibility (see subpart  9.1) even though a bond has been or can be obtained.
31.205-20 Interest and other financial costs. No subsections found.
36.602-2 Evaluation boards. (a) (a) When acquiring architect-engineer services, an agency shall provide for one or more permanent or ad hoc architect-engineer evaluation boards (which may include preselection boards when authorized by agency regulations) to be composed of members who, collectively, have experience in architecture, engineering, construction, and Government and related acquisition matters. Members shall be appointed from among highly qualified professional employees of the agency or other agencies, and if authorized by agency procedure, private practitioners of architecture, engineering, or related professions. One Government member of each board shall be designated as the chairperson. (b) (b) No firm shall be eligible for award of an architect-engineer contract during the period in which any of its principals or associates are participating as members of the awarding agency’s evaluation board.
46.203 Criteria for use of contract quality requirements. (a) (a) Technical description. Contract items may be technically classified as- (b) (b) Complexity. (c) (c) Criticality.
52.225-6 Trade Agreements Certificate. (a) (a) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (b) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (b) (b) The offeror shall list as other end products those supplies that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. (c) (c) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of part  25 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American statute. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for those products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of this solicitation.
53.229 Taxes (SF’s 1094, 1094-A). No subsections found.
Part 53 - Forms No subsections found.
Subpart 4.12 - Representations and Certifications No subsections found.
11.105 Items peculiar to one manufacturer. (a) (a) (b) (b) For multiple award schedule orders, see 8.405-6. (c) (c) For orders under indefinite-quantity contracts, see 16.505(a)(4).
Subpart 17.2 - Options No subsections found.
52.249-2 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price). (a) (a) The Government may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or, from time to time, in part if the Contracting Officer determines that a termination is in the Government’s interest. The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a Notice of Termination specifying the extent of termination and the effective date. (b) (b) After receipt of a Notice of Termination, and except as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall immediately proceed with the following obligations, regardless of any delay in determining or adjusting any amounts due under this clause: (c) (c) The Contractor shall submit complete termination inventory schedules no later than 120 days from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 120-day period. (d) (d) After expiration of the plant clearance period as defined in Subpart 49.001 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Contractor may submit to the Contracting Officer a list, certified as to quantity and quality, of termination inventory not previously disposed of, excluding items authorized for disposition by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may request the Government to remove those items or enter into an agreement for their storage. Within 15 days, the Government will accept title to those items and remove them or enter into a storage agreement. The Contracting Officer may verify the list upon removal of the items, or if stored, within 45 days from submission of the list, and shall correct the list, as necessary, before final settlement. (e) (e) After termination, the Contractor shall submit a final termination settlement proposal to the Contracting Officer in the form and with the certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall submit the proposal promptly, but no later than 1 year from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 1-year period. However, if the Contracting Officer determines that the facts justify it, a termination settlement proposal may be received and acted on after 1 year or any extension. If the Contractor fails to submit the proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined. (f) (f) Subject to paragraph (e) of this clause, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer may agree upon the whole or any part of the amount to be paid or remaining to be paid because of the termination. The amount may include a reasonable allowance for profit on work done. However, the agreed amount, whether under this paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of this clause, exclusive of costs shown in paragraph (g)(3) of this clause, may not exceed the total contract price as reduced by (1) the amount of payments previously made and (2) the contract price of work not terminated. The contract shall be modified, and the Contractor paid the agreed amount. Paragraph (g) of this clause shall not limit, restrict, or affect the amount that may be agreed upon to be paid under this paragraph. (g) (g) If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree on the whole amount to be paid because of the termination of work, the Contracting Officer shall pay the Contractor the amounts determined by the Contracting Officer as follows, but without duplication of any amounts agreed on under paragraph (f) of this clause: (h) (h) Except for normal spoilage, and except to the extent that the Government expressly assumed the risk of loss, the Contracting Officer shall exclude from the amounts payable to the Contractor under paragraph (g) of this clause, the fair value as determined by the Contracting Officer, for the loss of the Government property. (i) (i) The cost principles and procedures of part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, in effect on the date of this contract, shall govern all costs claimed, agreed to, or determined under this clause. (j) (j) The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the Disputes clause, from any determination made by the Contracting Officer under paragraph (e), (g), or (l) of this clause, except that if the Contractor failed to submit the termination settlement proposal or request for equitable adjustment within the time provided in paragraph (e) or (l), respectively, and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal. (k) (k) In arriving at the amount due the Contractor under this clause, there shall be deducted- (l) (l) If the termination is partial, the Contractor may file a proposal with the Contracting Officer for an equitable adjustment of the price(s) of the continued portion of the contract. The Contracting Officer shall make any equitable adjustment agreed upon. Any proposal by the Contractor for an equitable adjustment under this clause shall be requested within 90 days from the effective date of termination unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer. (m) (m) (n) (n) Unless otherwise provided in this contract or by statute, the Contractor shall maintain all records and documents relating to the terminated portion of this contract for 3 years after final settlement. This includes all books and other evidence bearing on the Contractor’s costs and expenses under this contract. The Contractor shall make these records and documents available to the Government, at the Contractor’s office, at all reasonable times, without any direct charge. If approved by the Contracting Officer, photographs, microphotographs, or other authentic reproductions may be maintained instead of original records and documents.
52.222-26 Equal Opportunity. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this clause. (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) Notwithstanding any other clause in this contract, disputes relative to this clause will be governed by the procedures in 41 CFR 60-1.
44.402 Policy requirements. (a) (a) Contractors and subcontractors at all tiers shall, to the maximum extent practicable: (b) (b) The clause at 52.244-6, Subcontracts for Commercial Products and Commercial Services, implements the policy in paragraph (a) of this section. Notwithstanding any other clause in the prime contract, only those clauses identified in the clause at 52.244-6 are required to be in subcontracts for commercial products or commercial services. (c) (c) Agencies may supplement the clause at 52.244-6 only as necessary to reflect agency unique statutes applicable to the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.
19.103 	Appealing the contracting officer's North American Industry Classification System code and size standard determination. (a) (a) The contracting officer’s determination is final unless appealed as follows: (b) (b) SBA’s regulations concerning appeals of NAICS code designations are located at 13 CFR 121.1102 to 121.1103 and 13 CFR part 134.
52.236-25 Requirements for Registration of Designers. No subsections found.
27.405-1 Special works. (a) (a) The clause at 52.227-17, Rights in Data-Special Works, is for use in contracts (or may be made applicable to portions thereof) that are primarily for the production or compilation of data (other than limited rights data or restricted computer software) for the Government’s own use, or when there is a specific need to limit distribution and use of the data or to obtain indemnity for liabilities that may arise out of the content, performance, or disclosure of the data. Examples are contracts for- (b) (b) The contract may specify the purposes and conditions (including time limitations) under which the data may be used, released, or reproduced other than for contract performance. Contracts for the production of audiovisual works, sound recordings, etc., may include limitations in connection with talent releases, music licenses, and the like that are consistent with the purposes for which the works are acquired. (c) (c) Paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of the clause, which enables the Government to obtain assignment of copyright in any data first produced in the performance of the contract, may be deleted if the contracting officer determines that such assignment is not needed to further the objectives of the contract. (d) (d) Paragraph (e) of the clause, which requires the contractor to indemnify the Government against any liability incurred as the result of any violation of trade secrets, copyrights, right of privacy or publicity, or any libelous or other unlawful matter arising out of or contained in any production or compilation of data that are subject to the clause, may be deleted or limited in scope where the contracting officer determines that, because of the nature of the particular data involved, such liability will not arise. (e) (e) When the audiovisual or other special works are produced to accomplish a public purpose other than acquisition for the Government’s own use (such as for production and distribution to the public of the works by other than a Federal agency) agencies are authorized to modify the clause for use in contracts, with rights in data provisions that meet agency mission needs yet protect free speech and freedom of expression, as well as the artistic license of the creator of the work.
52.234-4 Earned Value Management System. (a) (a) The Contractor shall use an earned value management system (EVMS) that has been determined by the Cognizant Federal Agency (CFA) to be compliant with the guidelines in Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748 (EIA-748) (current version at the time of award) to manage this contract. If the Contractor’s current EVMS has not been determined compliant at the time of award, see paragraph (b) of this clause. The Contractor shall submit reports in accordance with the requirements of this contract. (b) (b) If, at the time of award, the Contractor’s EVM System has not been determined by the CFA as complying with EVMS guidelines or the Contractor does not have an existing cost/schedule control system that is compliant with the guidelines in EIA- 748 (current version at time of award), the Contractor shall- (c) (c) The Government will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). If a pre-award IBR has not been conducted, a post award IBR shall be conducted as early as practicable after contract award. (d) (d) The Contracting Officer may require an IBR at- (e) (e) Unless a waiver is granted by the CFA, Contractor proposed EVMS changes require approval of the CFA prior to implementation. The CFA will advise the Contractor of the acceptability of such changes within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of proposed changes from the Contractor. If the advance approval requirements are waived by the CFA, the Contractor shall disclose EVMS changes to the CFA at least 14 calendar days prior to the effective date of implementation. (f) (f) The Contractor shall provide access to all pertinent records and data requested by the Contracting Officer or a an authorized representative as necessary to permit Government surveillance to ensure that the EVMS conforms, and continues to conform, with the performance criteria referenced in paragraph (a) of this clause. (g) (g) The Contractor shall require the subcontractors specified below to comply with the requirements of this clause: [Insert list of applicable subcontractors.]
22.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
22.103-5 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.222-1, Notice to the Government of Labor Disputes, in solicitations and contracts that involve programs or requirements that have been designated under 22.101-1(e). (b) (b) The contracting officer shall include the clause at 52.222-2, Payment for Overtime Premiums, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; unless-
32.006-4 Procedures. (a) (a) In any case in which an agency’s remedy coordination official finds substantial evidence that a contractor’s request for advance, partial, or progress payments under a contract awarded by that agency is based on fraud, the remedy coordination official shall recommend that the agency head reduce or suspend further payments to the contractor. The remedy coordination official shall submit to the agency head a written report setting forth the remedy coordination official’s findings that support each recommendation. (b) (b) Upon receiving a recommendation from the remedy coordination official under paragraph (a) of this subsection, the agency head shall determine whether substantial evidence exists that the request for payment under a contract is based on fraud. (c) (c) If the agency head determines that substantial evidence exists, the agency head may reduce or suspend further payments to the contractor under the affected contract(s). Such reduction or suspension shall be reasonably commensurate with the anticipated loss to the Government resulting from the fraud. (d) (d) In determining whether to reduce or suspend further payment(s), as a minimum, the agency head shall consider- (e) (e) Before making a decision to reduce or suspend further payments, the agency head shall, in accordance with agency procedures- (f) (f) When more than one agency has contracts affected by the fraud, the agencies shall consider designating one agency as the lead agency for making the determination and decision. (g) (g) The agency shall retain in its files the written justification for each- (h) (h) Not later than 180 calendar days after the date of the reduction or suspension action, the remedy coordination official shall-
15.402 Pricing policy. (a) (a) Purchase supplies and services from responsible sources at fair and reasonable prices. In establishing the reasonableness of the offered prices, the contracting officer- (b) (b) Price each contract separately and independently and not- (c) (c) Not include in a contract price any amount for a specified contingency to the extent that the contract provides for a price adjustment based upon the occurrence of that contingency.
52.207-2 Notice of Streamlined Competition. (a) (a) This solicitation is part of a streamlined competition under Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76 (Revised), Performance of Commercial Activities, dated May 29, 2003 (hereafter "the Circular"), to determine whether to accomplish the specified work under contract or by Government performance. (b) (b) The Government will evaluate the cost of private sector and Agency or public reimbursable performance, as provided in this solicitation and the Circular. (c) (c) A performance decision resulting from this streamlined competition will be publicly announced in accordance with the Circular. If the performance decision favors private sector performance, the Contracting Officer shall either award a contract or issue a competitive solicitation for private sector offers. If the performance decision favors Agency or public reimbursable performance, the Agency shall establish, respectively, either a letter of obligation or a fee-for-service agreement, as those terms are defined in the Circular.
48.103 Processing value engineering change proposals. (a) (a) Instructions to the contractor for preparing a VECP and submitting it to the Government are included in paragraphs (c) and (d) of the value engineering clauses prescribed in subpart  48.2. Upon receiving a VECP, the contracting officer or other designated official shall promptly process and objectively evaluate the VECP in accordance with agency procedures and shall document the contract file with the rationale for accepting or rejecting the VECP. (b) (b) The contracting officer is responsible for accepting or rejecting the VECP within 45 days from its receipt by the Government. If the Government will need more time to evaluate the VECP, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor promptly in writing, giving the reasons and the anticipated decision date. The contractor may withdraw, in whole or in part, any VECP not accepted by the Government within the period specified in the VECP. Any VECP may be approved, in whole or in part, by a contract modification incorporating the VECP. Until the effective date of the contract modification, the contractor shall perform in accordance with the existing contract. If the Government accepts the VECP, but properly rejects units subsequently delivered or does not receive units on which a savings share was paid, the contractor shall reimburse the Government for the proportionate share of these payments. If the VECP is not accepted, the contracting officer shall provide the contractor with prompt written notification, explaining the reasons for rejection. (c) (c) The following Government decisions are unilateral decisions made solely at the discretion of the Government:
4.1402 Procedures. (a) (a) Agencies shall ensure that contractors comply with the reporting requirements of 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards. Agencies shall review contractor reports on a quarterly basis to ensure the information is consistent with contract information. The agency is not required to address data for which the agency would not normally have supporting information, such as the compensation information required of contractors and first-tier subcontractors. However, the agency shall inform the contractor of any inconsistencies with the contract information and require that the contractor correct the report, or provide a reasonable explanation as to why it believes the information is correct. Agencies may review the reports at http://www.fsrs.gov. (b) (b) When contracting officers report the contract action to the Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS) in accordance with FAR subpart  4.6, certain data will then pre-populate from FPDS, to assist contractors in completing and submitting their reports. If data originating from FPDS is found by the contractor to be in error when the contractor completes the subcontract report, the contractor should notify the Government contracting officer, who is responsible for correcting the data in FPDS. Contracts reported using the generic entity identifier allowed at FAR 4.605(c)(2) will interfere with the contractor’s ability to comply with this reporting requirement, because the data will not pre-populate from FPDS. (c) (c) If the contractor fails to comply with the reporting requirements, the contracting officer shall exercise appropriate contractual remedies. In addition, the contracting officer shall make the contractor’s failure to comply with the reporting requirements a part of the contractor’s performance information under subpart  42.15. (d) (d) There is a reporting exception in 52.204-10(g) for contractors and subcontractors who had gross income in the previous tax year under $300,000.
19.502-1 Requirements for setting	aside acquisitions. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall	set aside an individual acquisition or class of acquisitions for	competition among small businesses when- (b) (b) The requirement in paragraph	(a) of this section does not apply to purchases at or below the	micro-purchase threshold, or purchases from required sources under part  8(e.g., Committee	for Purchase From People Who are Blind or Severely Disabled).
Subpart 41.5 - Solicitation Provision and Contract Clauses No subsections found.
31.205-6 Compensation for personal services. (a) (a) General. Compensation for personal services is allowable subject to the following general criteria and additional requirements contained in other parts of this cost principle: (b) (b) Reasonableness- (c) (c) [Reserved] (d) (d) Form of payment. (e) (e) Income tax differential pay. (f) (f) Bonuses and incentive compensation. (g) (g) Severance pay. (h) (h) Backpay. Backpay is a retroactive adjustment of prior years’ salaries or wages. Backpay is unallowable except as follows: (i) (i) Compensation based on changes in the prices of corporate securities or corporate security ownership, such as stock options, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock plans, and junior stock conversions. (j) (j) Pension costs. (k) (k) Deferred compensation other than pensions. The costs of deferred compensation awards are allowable subject to the following limitations: (l) (l) Compensation incidental to business acquisitions. The following costs are unallowable: (m) (m) Fringe benefits. (n) (n) Employee rebate and purchase discount plans. Rebates and purchase discounts, in whatever form, granted to employees on products or services produced by the contractor or affiliates are unallowable. (o) (o) Postretirement benefits other than pensions (PRB). (p) (p) Limitation on allowability of compensation. (q) (q) Employee stock ownership plans (ESOP).
14.407-3 Other mistakes disclosed before award. (a) (a) If a bidder requests permission to correct a mistake and clear and convincing evidence establishes both the existence of the mistake and the bid actually intended, the agency head may make a determination permitting the bidder to correct the mistake; provided, that if this correction would result in displacing one or more lower bids, such a determination shall not be made unless the existence of the mistake and the bid actually intended are ascertainable substantially from the invitation and the bid itself. (b) (b) If- (c) (c) If, under paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection, (1) the evidence of a mistake is clear and convincing only as to the mistake but not as to the intended bid, or (2) the evidence reasonably supports the existence of a mistake but is not clear and convincing, an official above the contracting officer, unless otherwise provided by agency procedures, may make a determination permitting the bidder to withdraw the bid. (d) (d) If the evidence does not warrant a determination under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the agency head may make a determination that the bid be neither withdrawn nor corrected. (e) (e) Heads of agencies may	delegate their authority to make the determinations under paragraphs (a),	(b), (c), and (d) of this 14.407-3 to a	central authority, or a limited number of authorities as necessary, in their	agencies, without power of redelegation. (f) (f) Each proposed determination shall have the concurrence of legal counsel within the agency concerned before issuance. (g) (g) Suspected or alleged mistakes in bids shall be processed as follows. A mere statement by the administrative officials that they are satisfied that an error was made is insufficient. (h) (h) Each agency shall	maintain records of all determinations made in accordance with this	subsection 14.407-3, the	facts involved, and the action taken in each case. Copies of all such	determinations shall be included in the file. (i) (i) Nothing contained in	this subsection 14.407-3 prevents an agency from submitting doubtful cases to the Comptroller General	for advance decision.
9.205 Opportunity for qualification before award. (a) (a) If an agency determines that a qualification requirement is necessary, the agency activity responsible for establishing the requirement must urge manufacturers and other potential sources to demonstrate their ability to meet the standards specified for qualification and, when possible, give sufficient time to arrange for qualification before award. The responsible agency activity must, before establishing any qualification requirement, furnish notice through the GPE. The notice must include- (b) (b) The activity responsible for establishing a qualification requirement must keep any list maintained of those already qualified open for inclusion of additional products, manufacturers, or other potential sources.
31.106 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 7.5 - Inherently Governmental Functions No subsections found.
9.505-4 Obtaining access to proprietary information. (a) (a) When a contractor requires proprietary information from others to perform a Government contract and can use the leverage of the contract to obtain it, the contractor may gain an unfair competitive advantage unless restrictions are imposed. These restrictions protect the information and encourage companies to provide it when necessary for contract performance. They are not intended to protect information- (b) (b) A contractor that gains access to proprietary information of other companies in performing advisory and assistance services for the Government must agree with the other companies to protect their information from unauthorized use or disclosure for as long as it remains proprietary and refrain from using the information for any purpose other than that for which it was furnished. The contracting officer shall obtain copies of these agreements and ensure that they are properly executed. (c) (c) Contractors also obtain proprietary and source selection information by acquiring the services of marketing consultants which, if used in connection with an acquisition, may give the contractor an unfair competitive advantage. Contractors should make inquiries of marketing consultants to ensure that the marketing consultant has provided no unfair competitive advantage.
49.605 Request to settle subcontractor settlement proposals. (a) (a) Name of contractor and address of principal office. (b) (b) Name and location of divisions of the applicant’s plant for which authorization is requested. (c) (c) An explanation of the necessity and justification for the authorization requested. (d) (d) A full description of the applicant’s organization for handling terminations, including the names of the officials in charge of processing and settling proposals. (e) (e) The number and dollar amount (estimated if necessary) of uncompleted contracts with Government agencies and the percentage applicable to each agency. (f) (f) The number and dollar amount (estimated if necessary) of uncompleted subcontracts under Government contracts and the percentage applicable to each agency. (g) (g) The extent of the applicant’s experience in termination matters, including the handling of proposals of subcontractors. (h) (h) The approximate amount and general nature of terminations of the applicant currently in process. (i) (i) A statement that no other application has been made for any division of the applicant’s plant covered by the application or, if one has been made, a full statement of the facts. (j) (j) The limit of authorization requested.
19.806 Pricing the 8(a) contract. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall price the 8(a) contract in accordance with subpart  15.4. If required by subpart  15.4, the SBA shall obtain certified cost or pricing data from the 8(a) contractor. If the SBA requests audit assistance to determine the proposed price to be fair and reasonable in a sole source acquisition, the contracting activity shall furnish it to the extent it is available. (b) (b) An 8(a) contract, sole source or competitive, may not be awarded if the price of the contract results in a cost to the contracting agency which exceeds a fair market price. (c) (c) If requested by the SBA, the contracting officer shall make available the data used to estimate the fair market price within 10 working days. (d) (d) The negotiated contract price and the estimated fair market price are subject to the concurrence of the SBA. In the event of a disagreement between the contracting officer and the SBA, the SBA may appeal in accordance with 19.810.
14.304 Submission, modification, and withdrawal of bids. (a) (a) Bidders are responsible for submitting bids, and any modifications or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the invitation for bid (IFB) by the time specified in the IFB. They may use any transmission method authorized by the IFB (i.e.,regular mail, electronic commerce, or facsimile). If no time is specified in the IFB, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that bids are due. (b) (b) (c) (c) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the bid wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (d) (d) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that bids cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of bids by the exact time specified in the IFB, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the bid opening date, the time specified for receipt of bids will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the IFB on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (e) (e) Bids may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of bids. If the IFB authorizes facsimile bids, bids may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of bids, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.214-31, Facsimile Bids. A bid may be withdrawn in person by a bidder or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of bids, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the bid. Upon withdrawal of an electronically transmitted bid, the data received must not be viewed and, where practicable, must be purged from primary and backup data storage systems. (f) (f) The contracting officer must promptly notify any bidder if its bid, modification, or withdrawal was received late, and must inform the bidder whether its bid will be considered, unless contract award is imminent and the notices prescribed in 14.409 would suffice. (g) (g) Late bids and modifications that are not considered must be held unopened, unless opened for identification, until after award and then retained with other unsuccessful bids. However, any bid bond or guarantee must be returned. (h) (h) If available, the following must be included in the contract files for each late bid, modification, or withdrawal:
5.704 Publicizing preaward. (a) (a) (b) (b) Contracting officers shall identify proposed contract actions, funded in whole or in part by the Recovery Act, by using the following instructions which are also available in the Recovery FAQs under "Buyers/Engineers" at the Governmentwide Point of Entry (GPE) ( https://www.sam.gov ): (c) (c) In preparing the description required by 5.207(a)(16), use clear and concise language to describe the planned procurement. Use descriptions of the goods and services (including construction), that can be understood by the general public. Avoid the use of acronyms or terminology that is not widely understood by the general public.
7.107-4 Substantial bundling. (a) (a) (b) (b) In addition to addressing the requirements for bundling (see 7.107-3), when the proposed acquisition strategy involves substantial bundling, the agency shall document in its strategy—
25.504-1 Buy American statute. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c)
51.202 Authorization. (a) (a) The contracting officer may authorize a cost-reimbursement contractor to obtain interagency fleet management system (IFMS) vehicles and related services, if the contracting officer has- (b) (b) The authorization shall- (c) (c) Authorizations to subcontractors shall be issued through, and with the approval of, the contractor. (d) (d) Contracting officers authorizing contractor use of interagency fleet management system (IFMS) vehicles and related services subject their agencies to the responsibilities and liabilities provided in 41 CFR 101-39.4 regarding accidents and claims.
16.505 Ordering. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Orders under multiple-award contracts— (c) (c) Limitation on ordering period for task-order contracts for advisory and assistance services.
7.105 Contents of written acquisition plans. (a) (a) Acquisition background and objectives- (b) (b) Plan of action—
25.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part provides policies and procedures for- (b) (b) It implements 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American; trade agreements; and other laws and regulations.
37.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.211-13 Time Extensions. No subsections found.
32.904 Determining payment due dates. (a) (a) General. Agency procedures must ensure that, when specifying due dates, contracting officers give full consideration to the time reasonably required by Government officials to fulfill their administrative responsibilities under the contract. (b) (b) Payment due dates. Except as prescribed in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, or as authorized in 32.908(a)(2) or (c)(2), the due date for making an invoice payment is as follows: (c) (c) Architect-engineer contracts. (d) (d) Construction contracts. (e) (e) Cost-reimbursement contracts for services. For purposes of computing late payment interest penalties that may apply, the due date for making interim payments on cost-reimbursement contracts for services is 30 days after the date of receipt of a proper invoice. (f) (f) Food and specified items. (g) (g) Multiple payment due dates. Contracting officers may encourage, but not require, contractors to submit separate invoices for products with different payment due dates under the same contract or order. When an invoice contains items with different payment due dates (i.e.,a mixed invoice), the payment office will, subject to agency policy-
47.505 Construction contracts. (a) (a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, construction contractors, including subcontractors and suppliers, engaged in overseas work shall comply with the policies and regulations in this subpart. (b) (b) These requirements shall not apply to military assistance, foreign aid, or similar projects under the auspices of the U.S. Government when the recipient nation furnishes, or pays for, at least 50 percent of the transportation, in which event foreign-flag vessels may be used for a portion not to exceed 50 percent of the gross tonnage for the project.
27.408 Cosponsored research and development activities. (a) (a) In contracts involving cosponsored research and development that require the contractor to make substantial contributions of funds or resources (e.g., by cost-sharing or by repayment of nonrecurring costs), and the contractor’s and the Government’s respective contributions to any item, component, process, or computer software, developed or produced under the contract are not readily segregable, the contracting officer may limit the acquisition of, or acquire less than unlimited rights to, any data developed and delivered under the contract. Agencies may regulate the use of this authority in their supplements. Lesser rights shall, at a minimum, assure use of the data for agreed-to Governmental purposes (including reprocurement rights as appropriate), and address any disclosure limitations or restrictions to be imposed on the data. Also, consideration may be given to requiring the contractor to directly license others if needed to carry out the objectives of the contract. Since the purpose of the cosponsored research and development, the legitimate proprietary interests of the contractor, the needs of the Government, and the respective contributions of both parties may vary, no specific clauses are prescribed, but a clause providing less than unlimited rights in the Government for data developed and delivered under the contract (such as license rights) may be tailored to the circumstances consistent with the foregoing and the policy set forth in 27.402. As a guide, a clause may be appropriate when the contractor contributes money or resources, or agrees to make repayment of nonrecurring costs, of a value of approximately 50 percent of the total cost of the contract (i.e., Government, contractor, and/or third party paid costs), and the respective contributions are not readily segregable for any work element to be performed under the contract. A clause may be used for all or for only specifically identified tasks or work elements under the contract. In the latter instance, its use will be in addition to whatever other data rights clause is prescribed under this subpart, with the contract specifically identifying which clause is to apply to which tasks or work elements. Further, this type of clause may not be appropriate where the purpose of the contract is to produce data for dissemination to the public, or to develop or demonstrate technologies that will be available, in any event, to the public for its direct use. (b) (b) Where the contractor’s contributions are readily segregable (by performance requirements and the funding for the contract) and so identified in the contract, any resulting data may be treated under this clause as limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with 27.404-2(c) or (d), as applicable; or if this treatment is inconsistent with the purpose of the contract, rights to the data may, if so negotiated and stated in the contract, be treated in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
3.402 Statutory requirements. (a) (a) Require in every negotiated contract a warranty by the contractor against contingent fees; (b) (b) Permit, as an exception to the warranty, contingent fee arrangements between contractors and bona fide employees or bona fide agencies; and (c) (c) Provide that, for breach or violation of the warranty by the contractor, the Government may annul the contract without liability or deduct from the contract price or consideration, or otherwise recover, the full amount of the contingent fee.
3.101-3 Agency regulations. (a) (a) Agencies are required by Executive Order 11222 of May 8,1965, and 5 CFR 735 to prescribe "Standards of Conduct." These agency standards contain- (b) (b) Requirements for employee financial disclosure and restrictions on private employment for former Government employees are in Office of Personnel Management and agency regulations implementing Public Law 95-521, which amended 18 U.S.C. 207.
47.305-8 Consolidation of small shipments and the use of stopoff privileges. (a) (a) Consolidation of small shipments. Consolidation of small shipments into larger lots frequently results in lower transportation costs. Therefore, the contracting officer, after consultation with the transportation office and the activity requiring the supplies, may revise the delivery schedules to provide for deliveries in larger quantities. (b) (b) Stopping for partial unloading. When feasible, schedules for delivery of supplies to multiple destinations shall be consolidated and the stopoff privileges permitted under carrier tariffs shall be used for partial unloading at one or more points directly en route between the point of origin and the last destination.
43.105 Availability of funds. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall not execute a contract modification that causes or will cause an increase in funds without having first obtained a certification of fund availability, except for modifications to contracts that- (b) (b) The certification required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be based on the negotiated price, except that modifications executed before agreement on price may be based on the best available estimate of cost. (c) (c) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 983, do not provide funds by contract or contract modification, or make contract payments, to an institution of higher education that has a policy or practice of hindering Senior Reserve Officer Training Corps units or military recruiting on campus as described at 9.110. The prohibition in this paragraph (c) does not apply to acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or to acquisitions of commercial products, including commercially available off-the-shelf items, and commercial services.
16.402 Application of predetermined, formula-type incentives. No subsections found.
32.703-3 Contracts crossing fiscal years. (a) (a) A contract that is funded by annual appropriations may not cross fiscal years, except in accordance with statutory authorization (e.g., 41 U.S.C.6302, 31 U.S.C.1308, 42 U.S.C. 2459a, 42 U.S.C.3515, and paragraph (b) of this subsection), or when the contract calls for an end product that cannot feasibly be subdivided for separate performance in each fiscal year (e.g., contracts for expert or consultant services). (b) (b) The head of an executive agency, except NASA, may enter into a contract, exercise an option, or place an order under a contract for severable services for a period that begins in one fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year if the period of the contract awarded, option exercised, or order placed does not exceed oneyear (10 U.S.C. 3133 and 41 U.S.C. 3902). Funds made available for a fiscal year may be obligated for the total amount of an action entered into under this authority.
19.705-7 Compliance with the subcontracting plan. (a) (a) General. Maximum practicable utilization of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors in Government contracts is a matter of national interest with both social and economic benefits. When a contractor fails to make a good faith effort to comply with a subcontracting plan, these objectives are not achieved, and 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F) directs that liquidated damages shall be paid by the contractor. (b) (b) Determination of good faith effort. (c) (c) Documentation of good faith effort. If, at completion of the basic contract or any option, or in the case of a commercial plan, at the close of the fiscal year for which the plan is applicable, a contractor has failed to comply with the requirements of its subcontracting plan, which includes meeting its subcontracting goals, the contracting officer shall review all available information for an indication that the contractor has not made a good faith effort to comply with the plan. If no such indication is found, the contracting officer shall document the file accordingly. (d) (d) Notice of failure to make a good faith effort. If the contracting officer decides in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section that the contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting plan, the contracting officer shall give the contractor written notice in accordance with 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan, specifying the material breach, which may be included in the contractor's past performance information, advising the contractor of the possibility that the contractor may have to pay to the Government liquidated damages, and providing a period of 15 working days (or longer period as necessary) within which to respond. The notice shall give the contractor an opportunity to demonstrate what good faith efforts have been made before the contracting officer issues the final decision and shall further state that failure of the contractor to respond may be taken as an admission that no valid explanation exists. (e) (e) Payment of liquidated damages. (f) (f) Commercial plans. With respect to commercial plans approved under the clause at 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, the contracting officer that approved the plan shall-
32.803 Policies. (a) (a) Any assignment of claims that has been made under the Act to any type of financing institution listed in 32.802(b) may thereafter be further assigned and reassigned to any such institution if the conditions in 32.802(d) and (e) continue to be met. (b) (b) A contract may prohibit the assignment of claims if the agency determines the prohibition to be in the Government’s interest. (c) (c) Under a requirements or indefinite quantity type contract that authorizes ordering and payment by multiple Government activities, amounts due for individual orders for $1,000 or more may be assigned. (d) (d) Any contract of a designated agency (see FAR 32.801), except a contract under which full payment has been made, may include a no-setoff commitment only when a determination of need is made by the head of the agency, in accordance with the Presidential delegation of authority dated October 3,1995, and after such determination has been published in the Federal Register. The Presidential delegation makes such determinations of need subject to further guidance issued by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy. The following guidance has been provided: (e) (e) When an assigned contract does not include a no-setoff commitment, the Government may apply against payments to the assignee any liability of the contractor to the Government arising independently of the assigned contract if the liability existed at the time notice of the assignment was received even though that liability had not yet matured so as to be due and payable.
47.402 Policy. No subsections found.
47.305-13 Transit arrangements. (a) (a) Transit privileges. (b) (b) Transit credits.
40.202-4 Exemptions. (a) (a) Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, Department of State, and the Department of Justice exemptions. The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General are exempt from the prohibitions in 40.202 if the procurement or operation is required in the national interest of the United States and- (b) (b) Department of Transportation exemption. The Secretary of Transportation is exempt from the prohibitions in 40.202 if the operation or procurement is deemed to support the safe, secure, or efficient operation of the National Air Space System or maintenance of public safety. (c) (c) National Transportation Safety Board exemption. The National Transportation Safety Board, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, is exempt from the prohibitions, in 40.202 if the operation or procurement is necessary for the sole purpose of conducting safety investigations. (d) (d) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) exemption. The Administrator of NOAA, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, is exempt from the prohibitions of 40.202, if the operation or procurement for the purposes of meeting NOAA’s science or management objectives or operational mission.
52.204-15 Service Contract Reporting Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts. (a) (a) Definitions. (b) (b) The Contractor shall report, in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this clause, annually by October 31, for services performed during the preceding Government fiscal year (October 1-September 30) under this contract for orders that exceed the thresholds established in 4.1703(a)(2). (c) (c) The Contractor shall report the following information: (d) (d) The information required	in paragraph (c) of this clause shall be submitted via the internet at www.sam.gov. (See SAM User Guide). If the	Contractor fails to submit the report in a timely manner, the Contracting	Officer will exercise appropriate contractual remedies. In addition, the	Contracting Officer will make the Contractor’s failure to comply with the	reporting requirements a part of the Contractor’s performance information	under FAR subpart  42.15. (e) (e) Agencies will review Contractor reported information for reasonableness and consistency with available contract information. In the event the agency believes that revisions to the Contractor reported information are warranted, the agency will notify the Contractor no later than November 15. By November 30, the Contractor shall revise the report, or document its rationale for the agency. (f) (f)
28.203-2 Substitution of assets. No subsections found.
Subpart 40.2  - Security Prohibitions and Exclusions No subsections found.
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
4.800 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
9.302 General. (a) (a) Impact on cost or time of delivery; (b) (b) Risk to the Government of foregoing such test; and (c) (c) Availability of other, less costly, methods of ensuring the desired quality.
16.203-4 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Adjustment based on established prices-standard supplies. (b) (b) Adjustment based on established prices-semistandard supplies. (c) (c) Adjustments based on actual cost of labor or material. (d) (d) Adjustments based on cost indexes of labor or material. The contracting officer should consider using an economic price adjustment clause based on cost indexes of labor or material under the circumstances and subject to approval as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
1.304 Agency control and compliance procedures. (a) (a) Under the authorities of 1.301(d), agencies shall control and limit issuance of agency acquisition regulations and, in particular, local agency directives that restrain the flexibilities found in the FAR, and shall establish formal procedures for the review of these documents to assure compliance with this part  1. (b) (b) Agency acquisition regulations shall not- (c) (c) Agencies shall evaluate all regulatory coverage in agency acquisition regulations to determine if it could apply to other agencies. Coverage that is not peculiar to one agency shall be recommended for inclusion in the FAR.
22.1012 Applicability of revisions to wage determinations. No subsections found.
31.001 Definitions. (a) (a) Basic research, (b) (b) Applied research, (c) (c) Development, and (d) (d) Systems and other concept formulation studies.
23.201 Authorities. No subsections found.
Subpart 6.2 - Full and Open Competition After Exclusion of Sources No subsections found.
22.1003-7 Questions concerning applicability of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute. No subsections found.
52.250-2 SAFETY Act Coverage Not Applicable. No subsections found.
Subpart 22.10 - Service Contract Labor Standards No subsections found.
14.203 Methods of soliciting bids. No subsections found.
52.204-28 Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts, and Multi-Agency Contracts. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Notice. During contract performance, the Contractor shall be required to comply with any of the following that apply: DHS FASCSA orders, DoD FASCSA orders, or DNI FASCSA orders. The applicable FASCSA order(s) will be identified in the request for quotation (see 8.405-2), or in the notice of intent to place an order (see 16.505(b)). FASCSA orders will be identified in paragraph (b)(1) of FAR 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, with its Alternate II. (c) (c) Removal. Upon notification from the contracting officer, during the performance of the contract, the Contractor shall promptly make any necessary changes or modifications to remove any covered article or any product or service produced or provided by a source that is subject to an applicable Governmentwide FASCSA order (see FAR 4.2303(b)).
52.224-1 Privacy Act Notification. No subsections found.
23.108-2 Chemically-intensive products. (a) (a) Program. Safer Choice is EPA's label for products that contain safer chemicals. Every chemical, regardless of percentage, in a Safer Choice-certified product is evaluated through EPA's rigorous scientific process and only the safest ingredients are allowed. (b) (b) Resource. For information on Safer Choice-certified products, see https://www.epa.gov/​saferchoice.
52.223-23 Sustainable Products and Services. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Requirements. (c) (c) Resource. The Green Procurement Compilation (GPC) available at https://sftool.gov/​greenprocurement provides a comprehensive list of sustainable products and services and sustainable acquisition guidance. The Contractor should review the GPC when determining which purchasing programs apply to a specific product or service.
Subpart 16.5 - Indefinite-Delivery Contracts No subsections found.
11.002 Policy. (a) (a) In fulfilling requirements of 10 U.S.C. 3206(a), 10 U.S.C. 3453, 41 U.S.C. 3306(a), and 41 U.S.C.3307, agencies shall- (b) (b) The Metric Conversion Act of 1975, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 205a, et seq.), designates the metric system of measurement as the preferred system of weights and measures for United States trade and commerce, and it requires that each agency use the metric system of measurement in its acquisitions, except to the extent that such use is impracticable or is likely to cause significant inefficiencies or loss of markets to United States firms. Requiring activities are responsible for establishing guidance implementing this policy in formulating their requirements for acquisitions. (c) (c) To the extent practicable and consistent with subpart  9.5, potential offerors should be given an opportunity to comment on agency requirements or to recommend application and tailoring of requirements documents and alternative approaches. Requiring agencies should apply specifications, standards, and related documents initially for guidance only, making final decisions on the application and tailoring of these documents as a product of the design and development process. Requiring agencies should not dictate detailed design solutions prematurely (see 7.101 and 7.105(a)(8)). (d) (d) (e) (e) Some or all of the performance levels or performance specifications in a solicitation may be identified as targets rather than as fixed or minimum requirements. (f) (f) In accordance with section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), the contracting officer shall obtain from the requiring activity the requirement documents, which must identify— (g) (g) Unless the agency Chief Information Officer waives the requirement, when acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, the requirements documents must include reference to the appropriate technical capabilities defined in the USGv6 Profile (NIST Special Publication 500-267) and the corresponding declarations of conformance defined in the USGv6 Test Program. The applicability of IPv6 to agency networks, infrastructure, and applications specific to individual acquisitions will be in accordance with the agency's Enterprise Architecture (see OMB Memorandum M-05-22 dated August 2, 2005). (h) (h) Agencies shall not include in a solicitation a requirement that prohibits an offeror from permitting its employees to telecommute unless the contracting officer executes a written determination in accordance with FAR 7.108(a).
36.608 Liability for Government costs resulting from design errors or deficiencies. No subsections found.
27.404-6 Inspection of data at the contractor’s facility. No subsections found.
8.404 Use of Federal Supply Schedules. (a) (a) General. parts  13 (except 13.303-2(c)(3)), 14, 15, and 19 (except for the requirements at 19.102(b)(3) and 19.202-1(e)(1)(iii)) do not apply to BPAs or orders placed against Federal Supply Schedules contracts (but see 8.405-5). BPAs and orders placed against a MAS, using the procedures in this subpart, are considered to be issued using full and open competition (see 6.102(d)(3)). Therefore, when establishing a BPA (as authorized by 13.303-2(c)(3)), or placing orders under Federal Supply Schedule contracts using the procedures of 8.405, ordering activities shall not seek competition outside of the Federal Supply Schedules or synopsize the requirement; but see paragraph (g) of this section. (b) (b) (c) (c) Acquisition planning. Orders placed under a Federal Supply Schedule contract- (d) (d) Pricing. Supplies offered on the schedule are listed at fixed prices. Services offered on the schedule are priced either at hourly rates, or at a fixed price for performance of a specific task (e.g., installation, maintenance, and repair). GSA has already determined the prices of supplies and fixed-price services, and rates for services offered at hourly rates, under schedule contracts to be fair and reasonable. Therefore, ordering activities are not required to make a separate determination of fair and reasonable pricing, except for a price evaluation as required by 8.405-2(d). By placing an order against a schedule contract using the procedures in 8.405, the ordering activity has concluded that the order represents the best value (as defined in FAR 2.101) and results in the lowest overall cost alternative (considering price, special features, administrative costs, etc.) to meet the Government’s needs. Although GSA has already negotiated fair and reasonable pricing, ordering activities may seek additional discounts before placing an order (see 8.405-4). (e) (e) The procedures under subpart 33.1 are applicable to the issuance of an order or the establishment of a BPA against a schedule contract. (f) (f) If the ordering activity issues an RFQ, the ordering activity shall provide the RFQ to any schedule contractor that requests a copy of it. (g) (g) (h) (h) Type-of-order preference for services. (i) (i) Ensure that service contractor reporting requirements are met in accordance with subpart  4.17, Service Contracts Inventory. (j) (j) Line items. When placing orders or establishing BPAs, ordering activities shall reference the special item number and the corresponding line or subline item awarded (established per 4.1005) in the schedule. If an ordering activity contracting officer adds an item not on the Federal Supply Schedule in accordance with 8.402(f), establish a new line item in accordance with subpart  4.10.
37.115-2 General policy. (a) (a) Use of uncompensated overtime is not encouraged. (b) (b) When professional or technical services are acquired on the basis of the number of hours to be provided, rather than on the task to be performed, the solicitation shall require offerors to identify uncompensated overtime hours and the uncompensated overtime rate for direct charge Fair Labor Standards Act-exempt personnel included in their proposals and subcontractor proposals. This includes uncompensated overtime hours that are in indirect cost pools for personnel whose regular hours are normally charged direct. (c) (c) Contracting officers must ensure that the use of uncompensated overtime in contracts to acquire services on the basis of the number of hours provided will not degrade the level of technical expertise required to fulfill the Government’s requirements (see 15.305 for competitive negotiations and 15.404-1(d) for cost realism analysis). When acquiring these services, contracting officers must conduct a risk assessment and evaluate, for award on that basis, any proposals received that reflect factors such as- (d) (d) Whenever there is uncompensated overtime, the adjusted hourly rate (including uncompensated overtime) (see definition at 37.101), rather than the hourly rate, shall be applied to all proposed hours, whether regular or overtime hours.
Subpart 34.1 - Testing, Qualification and Use of Industrial Resources Developed Under TitleIII, Defense Production Act No subsections found.
22.102-2 Administration. (a) (a) Agencies shall cooperate with, and encourage contractors to use to the fullest extent practicable, the DOL Employment and Training Administration (DOLETA) at http://www.doleta.gov, and its affiliated local offices in meeting contractors' labor requirements. These requirements may be to staff new or expanding plant facilities, including requirements for workers in all occupations and skills from local labor market areas or through the Federal-State employment clearance system. (b) (b) Local State employment offices are operated throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In addition to providing recruitment assistance to contractors, cooperation with the local State Employment Service offices will further the national program of maintaining continuous assessment of manpower requirements and resources on a national and local basis. (c) (c)
52.217-7 Option for Increased Quantity-Separately Priced Line Item. No subsections found.
9.108-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
15.505 Preaward debriefing of offerors. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall make every effort to debrief the unsuccessful offeror as soon as practicable, but may refuse the request for a debriefing if, for compelling reasons, it is not in the best interests of the Government to conduct a debriefing at that time. The rationale for delaying the debriefing shall be documented in the contract file. If the contracting officer delays the debriefing, it shall be provided no later than the time postaward debriefings are provided under 15.506. In that event, the contracting officer shall include the information at 15.506(d) in the debriefing. (c) (c) Debriefings may be done orally, in writing, or by any other method acceptable to the contracting officer. (d) (d) The contracting officer should normally chair any debriefing session held. Individuals who conducted the evaluations shall provide support. (e) (e) At a minimum, preaward debriefings shall include- (f) (f) Preaward debriefings shall not disclose- (g) (g) An official summary of the debriefing shall be included in the contract file.
Subpart 25.3 - Contracts Performed Outside the United States No subsections found.
52.202 [Reserved] No subsections found.
25.802 Procedures. (a) (a) When placing contracts with contractors located outside the United States, for performance outside the United States, contracting officers must- (b) (b) The Department of State publishes many international agreements in the "United States Treaties and Other International Agreements" series. Copies of this publication normally are available in overseas legal offices and U.S. diplomatic missions. (c) (c) Contracting officers must award all contracts with Taiwanese firms or organizations through the American Institute of Taiwan (AIT). AIT is under contract to the Department of State.
49.115 Settlement of terminated incentive contracts. (a) (a) Fixed-price incentive contracts. The TCO shall settle terminated fixed-price incentive (FPI) contracts under the provisions of paragraph (j) of the clause at 52.216-16, Incentive Price Revision-Firm Target, and 52.249-2, Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price). (b) (b) Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts. The TCO shall settle terminated cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts under the clause at 52.249-6, Termination (Cost-Reimbursement).
32.106 Order of preference. (a) (a) Private financing without Government guarantee. It is not intended, however, that the contracting officer require the contractor to obtain private financing- (b) (b) Customary contract financing other than loan guarantees and certain advance payments (see 32.113). (c) (c) Loan guarantees. (d) (d) Unusual contract financing (see 32.114). (e) (e) Advance payments (see exceptions in 32.402(b)).
42.603 Responsibilities. (a) (a) The CACO shall perform, on a corporate-wide basis, the contract administration functions as designated by the responsible agency. Typical CACO functions include- (b) (b) The CACO shall-
22.1605 Contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights under the National Labor Relations Act, in all solicitations and contracts, including acquisitions for commercial products, commercial services, and commercially available off-the-shelf items, except acquisitions- (b) (b) A contracting agency may modify the clause at 52.222-40, if necessary, to reflect an exemption granted by the Secretary (see 22.1603(b)).
47.403-1 Availability and unavailability of U.S.-flag air carrier service. (a) (a) If a U.S.-flag air carrier cannot provide the international air transportation needed or if the use of U.S.-flag air carrier service would not accomplish an agency’s mission, foreign-flag air carrier service may be deemed necessary. (b) (b) U.S.-flag air carrier service is considered available even though- (c) (c) Except as provided in	paragraph 47.403-1(a),	U.S.-flag air carrier service shall be used for U.S. Government-financed	commercial foreign air travel if service provided by U.S.-flag air carriers	is available. In determining availability of a U.S.-flag air carrier, the	following scheduling principles shall be followed unless their application	would result in the last or first leg of travel to or from the United States	being performed by a foreign-flag air carrier: (d) (d) For travel between a gateway airport in the United States and a gateway airport abroad, passenger service by U.S.-flag air carrier shall not be considered available if- (e) (e) For travel between two	points outside the United States, the rules in paragraphs 47.403-1(a), (b), and (c) shall be	applicable, but passenger service by a U.S.-flag air carrier shall not be	considered to be reasonably available if- (f) (f) For all short-distance	travel under either paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of 47.403-1, U.S. air carrier service shall	not be considered available when the elapsed travel time on a scheduled	flight from origin to destination airport by foreign-flag air carrier is 3	hours or less and service by a U.S.-flag air carrier would involve twice	such travel time.
Part 26 - Other Socioeconomic Programs No subsections found.
52.232-30 Installment Payments for Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) Contractor entitlement to financing payments. The Contractor may request, and the Government shall pay, a contract financing installment payment as specified in this contract when: the payment requested is properly due in accordance with this contract; the supplies deliverable or services due under the contract will be delivered or performed in accordance with the contract; and there has been no impairment or diminution of the Government’s security under this contract. (b) (b) Computation of amounts. Installment payment financing shall be paid to the Contractor when requested for each separately priced unit of supply (but not for services) of each line item in amounts approved by the Contracting Officer pursuant to this clause. (c) (c) Contractor request for installment payment. The Contractor may submit requests for payment of installment payments not more frequently than monthly, in a form and manner acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer, all installment payments in any month for which payment is being requested shall be included in a single request, appropriately itemized and totaled. (d) (d) Dates for payment. An installment payment under this clause is a contract financing payment under the Prompt Payment clause of this contract, and except as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, approved requests shall be paid within 30 days of submittal of a proper request for payment. (e) (e) Liquidation of installment payments. Installment payments shall be liquidated by deducting from the delivery payment of each item the total unliquidated amount of installment payments made for that separately priced unit of that line item. The liquidation amounts for each unit of each line item shall be clearly delineated in each request for delivery payment submitted by the Contractor. (f) (f) Security for installment payment financing. In the event the Contractor fails to provide adequate security as required in this contract, no financing payment shall be made under this contract. Upon receipt of adequate security, financing payments shall be made, including all previous payments to which the Contractor is entitled, in accordance with the terms of the contract. If at any time the Contracting Officer determines that the security provided by the Contractor is insufficient, the Contractor shall promptly provide such additional security as the Contracting Officer determines necessary. In the event the Contractor fails to provide such additional security, the Contracting Officer may collect or liquidate such security that has been provided, and suspend further payments to the Contractor; the Contractor shall repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated financing payments as the Contracting Officer at his sole discretion deems repayable. (g) (g) Special terms regarding termination for cause. If this contract is terminated for cause, the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated installment payments. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Termination for Cause paragraph of the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (h) (h) Reservation of rights. (i) (i) Content of Contractor's request for installment payment. The Contractor’s request for installment payment shall contain the following:
52.242-13 Bankruptcy. No subsections found.
18.115 HUBZone sole source awards. No subsections found.
19.602-1 Referral. (a) (a) Upon determining and documenting that an apparent successful small business offeror lacks certain elements of responsibility (including, but not limited to, capability, competency, capacity, credit, integrity, perseverance, tenacity, and limitations on subcontracting, but for sureties see 28.101-3(f) and 28.203-1(e)), the contracting officer shall- (b) (b) If a partial set-aside is involved, the contracting officer shall refer to the SBA the entire quantity to which the concern may be entitled, if responsible. (c) (c) The referral shall include- (d) (d) For any single acquisition, the contracting officer shall make only one referral at a time regarding a determination of nonresponsibility. (e) (e) Contract award shall be withheld by the contracting officer for a period of 15 business days (or longer if agreed to by the SBA and the contracting officer) following receipt by the appropriate SBA Area Office of a referral that includes all required documentation.
46.304 Fixed-price service contracts. No subsections found.
52.226-8 Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) This clause implements Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, dated October 1, 2009. (c) (c) The Contractor is encouraged to- (d) (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts that exceed the micro-purchase threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101 on the date of subcontract award.
52.222-53 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements. (a) (a) The services under this contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the Contractor to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations. (b) (b) The contract services are furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices. An "established catalog price" is a price included in a catalog, price list, schedule, or other form that is regularly maintained by the manufacturer or the Contractor, is either published or otherwise available for inspection by customers, and states prices at which sales currently, or were last, made to a significant number of buyers constituting the general public. An "established market price" is a current price, established in the usual course of ordinary and usual trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain, which can be substantiated from sources independent of the manufacturer or Contractor. (c) (c) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract. (d) (d) The Contractor uses the same compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract as the Contractor uses for these employees and for equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (e) (e) (f) (f) The Contractor is responsible for compliance with all the conditions of this exemption by its subcontractors. The Contractor shall determine in advance, based on the nature of the subcontract requirements and knowledge of the practices of likely subcontractors, that all or nearly all likely subcontractors will meet the conditions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this clause. If the services are currently being performed under a subcontract, the Contractor shall consider the practices of the existing subcontractor in making a determination regarding the conditions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this clause. If the Contractor has reason to doubt the validity of the certification, the requirements of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute shall be included in the subcontract. (g) (g) If the Department of Labor determines that any conditions for exemption at paragraphs (a) through (e) of this clause have not been met, the exemption shall be deemed inapplicable, and the contract shall become subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute. In such case, the procedures in at 29 CFR 4.123(e)(2)(iii) and 29 CFR 4.5(c) will be followed. (h) (h) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (h), in subcontracts for exempt services under this contract.
Subpart 5.3 - Synopses of Contract Awards No subsections found.
23.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.214-31 Facsimile Bids. (a) (a) Definition. "Facsimile bid," as used in this solicitation, means a bid, modification of a bid, or withdrawal of a bid that is transmitted to and received by the Government via electronic equipment that communicates and reproduces both printed and handwritten material. (b) (b) Bidders may submit facsimile bids as responses to this solicitation. These responses must arrive at the place and by the time, specified in the solicitation. (c) (c) Facsimile bids that fail to furnish required representations or information or that reject any of the terms, conditions, and provisions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (d) (d) Facsimile bids must contain the required signatures. (e) (e) The Government reserves the right to make award solely on the facsimile bid. However, if requested to do so by the Contracting Officer, the apparently successful bidder agrees to promptly submit the complete original signed bid. (f) (f) Facsimile receiving data and compatibility characteristics are as follows: (g) (g) If the bidder chooses to transmit a facsimile bid, the Government will not be responsible for any failure attributable to the transmission or receipt of the facsimile bid including, but not limited to, the following:
52.242-1 Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs. (a) (a) Notwithstanding any other clause of this contract- (b) (b) Failure to issue a notice under this Notice of Intent to Disallow Costs clause shall not affect the Government’s rights to take exception to incurred costs.
1.501-3 Exceptions. (a) (a) Comments need not be solicited when the proposed coverage does not constitute a significant revision. (b) (b) Advance comments need not be solicited when urgent and compelling circumstances make solicitation of comments impracticable prior to the effective date of the coverage, such as when a new statute must be implemented in a relatively short period of time. In such case, the coverage shall be issued on a temporary basis and shall provide for at least a 30 day public comment period.
9.507-2 Contract clause. (a) (a) If, as a condition of award, the contractor’s eligibility for future prime contract or subcontract awards will be restricted or the contractor must agree to some other restraint, the solicitation shall contain a proposed clause that specifies both the nature and duration of the proposed restraint. The contracting officer shall include the clause in the contract, first negotiating the clause’s final terms with the successful offeror, if it is appropriate to do so (see 9.506(d)). (b) (b) The restraint imposed by a clause shall be limited to a fixed term of reasonable duration, sufficient to avoid the circumstance of unfair competitive advantage or potential bias. This period varies. It might end, for example, when the first production contract using the contractor’s specifications or work statement is awarded, or it might extend through the entire life of a system for which the contractor has performed systems engineering and technical direction. In every case, the restriction shall specify termination by a specific date or upon the occurrence of an identifiable event.
32.410 Findings, determination, and authorization. (a) (a) Each determination concerning advance payments shall be supported by written findings (see 32.402(c)(1)(iii)). (b) (b) The following is an example of the format and text of findings, determination, and authorization with alternative words, phrases, and paragraphs to be selected to conform to the circumstances involved:
5.502 Authority. (a) (a) Newspapers. Authority to approve the publication of paid advertisements in newspapers is vested in the head of each agency (44 U.S.C. 3702). This approval authority may be delegated (5 U.S.C. 302(b)). Contracting officers shall obtain written authorization in accordance with policy procedures before advertising in newspapers. (b) (b) Other media. Unless the agency head determines otherwise, advance written authorization is not required to place advertisements in media other than newspapers.
49.403 Termination of cost-reimbursement contracts for default. (a) (a) The right to terminate a cost-reimbursement contract for default is provided for in the Termination for Default or for Convenience of the Government clause at 52.249-6. A 10-day notice to the contractor before termination for default is required in every case by the clause. (b) (b) Settlement of a cost-reimbursement contract terminated for default is subject to the principles in subparts  49.1 and 49.3 the same as when a contract is terminated for convenience, except that- (c) (c) The contracting officer shall use the procedures in 49.402 to the extent appropriate in considering the termination for default of a cost-reimbursement contract. However, a cost-reimbursement contract does not contain any provision for recovery of excess repurchase costs after termination for default (but see paragraph (g) of the clause at 52.246-3 with respect to failure of the contractor to replace or correct defective supplies).
14.102 [Reserved] No subsections found.
13.303-6 Review procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer placing orders under a BPA, or the designated representative of the contracting officer, shall review a sufficient random sample of the BPA files at least annually to ensure that authorized procedures are being followed. (b) (b) The contracting officer that entered into the BPA shall- (c) (c) If an office other than the purchasing office that established a BPA is authorized to make purchases under that BPA, the agency that has jurisdiction over the office authorized to make the purchases shall ensure that the procedures in paragraph (a) of this subsection are being followed.
22.403-2 Copeland Act. No subsections found.
27.407 Rights to technical data in successful proposals. No subsections found.
Subpart 43.3 - Forms No subsections found.
Part 1 - Federal Acquisition Regulations System No subsections found.
45.102 Policy. (a) (a) Contractors are ordinarily required to furnish all property necessary to perform Government contracts. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall provide property to contractors only when it is clearly demonstrated- (c) (c) The contractor’s inability or unwillingness to supply its own resources is not sufficient reason for the furnishing or acquisition of property. (d) (d) "Exception". Property provided under contracts for repair, maintenance, overhaul, or modification is not subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. (e) (e) Government property, other than foundations and similar improvements necessary for installing special tooling, special test equipment, or equipment, shall not be installed or constructed on contractor-owned real property in such fashion as to become nonseverable, unless the head of the contracting activity determines that such installation or construction is necessary and in the Government’s interest.
Subpart 52.1 - Instructions for Using Provisions and Clauses No subsections found.
25.206 Noncompliance. (a) (a) Review allegations of Buy American statute violations; (b) (b) Unless fraud is suspected, notify the contractor of the apparent unauthorized use of foreign construction material and request a reply, to include proposed corrective action; and (c) (c) If the review reveals that a contractor or subcontractor has used foreign construction material without authorization, take appropriate action, including one or more of the following:
35.017-3 Using an FFRDC. (a) (a) All work placed with the FFRDC must be within the purpose, mission, general scope of effort, or special competency of the FFRDC. (b) (b) Where the use of the FFRDC by a nonsponsor is permitted by the sponsor, the sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with paragraph (a) of this subsection.
Subpart 42.17 - Forward Pricing Rate Agreements No subsections found.
31.205-9 [Reserved] No subsections found.
12.204 Solicitation/contract form. (a) (a) (b) (b) Consistent with the requirements at 5.203(a) and (h), the contracting officer may allow fewer than 15 days before issuance of the solicitation.
19.809 	Preaward considerations. No subsections found.
43.204 Administration. (a) (a) Change order documentation. When change orders are not forward priced, they require two documents: the change order and a supplemental agreement reflecting the resulting equitable adjustment in contract terms. If an equitable adjustment in the contract price or delivery terms or both can be agreed upon in advance, only a supplemental agreement need be issued, but administrative changes and changes issued pursuant to a clause giving the Government a unilateral right to make a change (e.g., an option clause) initially require only one document. (b) (b) Definitization. (c) (c) Complete and final equitable adjustments. To avoid subsequent controversies that may result from a supplemental agreement containing an equitable adjustment as the result of a change order, the contracting officer should-
36.609-1 Design within funding limitations. (a) (a) The Government may require the architect-engineer contractor to design the project so that construction costs will not exceed a contractually specified dollar limit (funding limitation). If the price of construction proposed in response to a Government solicitation exceeds the construction funding limitation in the architect-engineer contract, the firm shall be solely responsible for redesigning the project within the funding limitation. These additional services shall be performed at no increase in the price of this contract. However, if the cost of proposed construction is affected by events beyond the firm’s reasonable control (e.g., if there is an increase in material costs which could not have been anticipated, or an undue delay by the Government in issuing a construction solicitation), the firm shall not be obligated to redesign at no cost to the Government. If a firm’s design fails to meet the contractual limitation on construction cost and the Government determines that the firm should not redesign the project, a written statement of the reasons for that determination shall be placed in the contract file. (b) (b) The amount of the construction funding limitation (to be inserted in paragraph (c) of the clause at 52.236-22) is to be established during negotiations between the contractor and the Government. This estimated construction contract price shall take into account any statutory or other limitations and exclude any allowances for Government supervision and overhead and any amounts set aside by the Government for contingencies. In negotiating the amount, the contracting officer should make available to the contractor the information upon which the Government has based its initial construction estimate and any subsequently acquired information that may affect the construction costs. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.236-22, Design Within Funding Limitations, in fixed-price architect-engineer contracts except when-
7.303 [Reserved] No subsections found.
31.109 Advance agreements. (a) (a) The extent of allowability of the costs covered in this part applies broadly to many accounting systems in varying contract situations. Thus, the reasonableness, the allocability and the allowability under the specific cost principles at subparts  31.2, 31.3, 31.6, and 31.7 of certain costs may be difficult to determine. To avoid possible subsequent disallowance or dispute based on unreasonableness, unallocability or unallowability under the specific cost principles at subparts  31.2, 31.3, 31.6, and 31.7, contracting officers and contractors should seek advance agreement on the treatment of special or unusual costs and on statistical sampling methodologies at 31.201-6(c). However, an advance agreement is not an absolute requirement and the absence of an advance agreement on any cost will not, in itself, affect the reasonableness, allocability or the allowability under the specific cost principles at subparts  31.2, 31.3, 31.6, and 31.7 of that cost. (b) (b) Advance agreements may be negotiated either before or during a contract but should be negotiated before incurrence of the costs involved. The agreements must be in writing, executed by both contracting parties, and incorporated into applicable current and future contracts. An advance agreement shall contain a statement of its applicability and duration. (c) (c) The contracting officer	is not authorized by this 31.109 to	agree to a treatment of costs inconsistent with this part. For example, an	advance agreement may not provide that, notwithstanding 31.205-20,	interest is allowable. (d) (d) Advance agreements may be negotiated with a particular contractor for a single contract, a group of contracts, or all the contracts of a contracting office, an agency, or several agencies. (e) (e) The cognizant administrative contracting officer (ACO), or other contracting officer established in part  42, shall negotiate advance agreements except that an advance agreement affecting only one contract, or class of contracts from a single contracting office, shall be negotiated by a contracting officer in the contracting office, or an ACO when delegated by the contracting officer. When the negotiation authority is delegated, the ACO shall coordinate the proposed agreement with the contracting officer before executing the advance agreement. (f) (f) Before negotiating an advance agreement, the Government negotiator shall- (g) (g) Upon completion of the negotiation, the sponsor shall prepare and distribute to other interested agencies and offices, including the audit agency, copies of the executed agreement and a memorandum providing the information specified in 15.406-3, as applicable. (h) (h) Examples for which advance agreements may be particularly important are-
16.703 Basic ordering agreements. (a) (a) Description. A basic ordering agreement is a written instrument of understanding, negotiated between an agency, contracting activity, or contracting office and a contractor, that contains (1) terms and clauses applying to future contracts (orders) between the parties during its term, (2)a description, as specific as practicable, of supplies or services to be provided, and (3) methods for pricing, issuing, and delivering future orders under the basic ordering agreement. A basic ordering agreement is not a contract. (b) (b) Application. A basic ordering agreement may be used to expedite contracting for uncertain requirements for supplies or services when specific items, quantities, and prices are not known at the time the agreement is executed, but a substantial number of requirements for the type of supplies or services covered by the agreement are anticipated to be purchased from the contractor. Under proper circumstances, the use of these procedures can result in economies in ordering parts for equipment support by reducing administrative lead-time, inventory investment, and inventory obsolescence due to design changes. (c) (c) Limitations. A basic ordering agreement shall not state or imply any agreement by the Government to place future contracts or orders with the contractor or be used in any manner to restrict competition. (d) (d) Orders. A contracting officer representing any Government activity listed in a basic ordering agreement may issue orders for required supplies or services covered by that agreement.
52.222-29 Notification of Visa Denial. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Requirement to notify.
36.700 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.245 [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.101-4 Noncompliance with bid guarantee requirements. (a) (a) In sealed bidding, noncompliance with a solicitation requirement for a bid guarantee requires rejection of the bid, except in the situations described in paragraph (c) of this subsection when the noncompliance shall be waived. (b) (b) In negotiation, noncompliance with a solicitation requirement for a bid guarantee requires rejection of an initial proposal as unacceptable, if a determination is made to award the contract based on initial proposals without discussion, except in the situations described in paragraph (c) of this subsection when noncompliance shall be waived. (See 15.306(a)(2) for conditions regarding making awards based on initial proposals.) If the conditions for awarding based on initial proposals are not met, deficiencies in bid guarantees submitted by offerors determined to be in the competitive range shall be addressed during discussions and the offeror shall be given an opportunity to correct the deficiency. (c) (c) Noncompliance with a solicitation requirement for a bid guarantee shall be waived in the following circumstances unless the contracting officer determines in writing that acceptance of the bid would be detrimental to the Government’s interest when-
34.005-4 Demonstration contracts. No subsections found.
42.503-3 Postaward conference report. No subsections found.
53.226 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.225-9 Buy American-Construction Materials. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Domestic preference. (c) (c) Request for determination of inapplicability of the Buy American statute. (d) (d) Data. To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey of suppliers:
35.010 Scientific and technical reports. (a) (a) R&D contracts shall require contractors to furnish scientific and technical reports, consistent with the objectives of the effort involved, as a permanent record of the work accomplished under the contract. (b) (b) Agencies should make R&D contract results available to other Government activities and the private sector. Contracting officers shall follow agency regulations regarding such matters as national security, protection of data, and new-technology dissemination policy. Reports should be sent to the-
28.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
32.207 Administration and payment of commercial financing payments. (a) (a) Responsibility. The contracting officer responsible for administration of the contract shall be responsible for review and approval of contract financing requests. (b) (b) Approval of financing requests. Unless otherwise provided in agency regulations, or by agreement with the appropriate payment official- (c) (c) Management of security. After contract award, the contracting officer responsible for approving requests for financing payments shall be responsible for determining that the security continues to be adequate. If the contractor’s financial condition is the Government’s security, this contracting officer is also responsible for monitoring the contractor’s financial condition.
32.202-3 Conducting market research about financing terms. (a) (a) The extent to which other buyers provide contract financing for purchases in that market; (b) (b) The overall level of financing normally provided; (c) (c) The amount or percentages of any payments equivalent to commercial advance payments (see 32.202-2); (d) (d) The basis for any payments equivalent to commercial interim payments (see 32.001), as well as the frequency, and amounts or percentages; and (e) (e) Methods of liquidation of contract financing payments and any special or unusual payment terms applicable to delivery payments (see 32.001).
31.205-12 Economic planning costs. No subsections found.
52.219-31 Notice of Small Business Reserve. (a) (a) This solicitation contains a reserve for one or more small business concerns identified at 19.000(a)(3). The small business program eligibility requirements apply. (b) (b) The small business concern(s) eligible for participation in the reserve shall submit one offer that addresses each portion of the solicitation for which it wants to compete. Award of the contract will be based on criteria identified elsewhere in the solicitation.
22.1504 Violations and remedies. (a) (a) Violations. The Government may impose remedies set forth in paragraph (b) of this section for the following violations (note that the violations in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section go beyond violations of the requirements relating to certification of end products) (see 22.1503): (b) (b) Remedies.
52.247-44 F.o.b. Designated Air Carrier’s Terminal, Point of Importation. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of importation," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered to the air carrier’s terminal at the point of importation specified in the contract. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
42.502 Selecting contracts for postaward orientation. (a) (a) Nature and extent of the preaward survey and any other prior discussions with the contractor; (b) (b) Type, value, and complexity of the contract; (c) (c) Complexity and acquisition history of the product or service; (d) (d) Requirements for spare parts and related equipment; (e) (e) Urgency of the delivery schedule and relationship of the product or service to critical programs; (f) (f) Length of the planned production cycle; (g) (g) Extent of subcontracting; (h) (h) Contractor’s performance history and experience with the product or service; (i) (i) Contractor’s status, if any, as a small business, small disadvantaged, women-owned, veteran-owned, HUBZone, or service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern; (j) (j) Contractor’s performance history with small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, veteran-owned, HUBZone, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business subcontracting programs; (k) (k) Safety precautions required for hazardous materials or operations; and (l) (l) Complex financing arrangements, such as progress payments, advance payments, or guaranteed loans.
27.204-1 Use of patented technology under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. No subsections found.
52.236-17 Layout of Work. No subsections found.
52.222-14 Disputes Concerning Labor Standards. No subsections found.
3.1101 Definitions. (a) (a) Covered employee means an individual who performs an acquisition function closely associated with inherently governmental functions and is-
52.214-6 Explanation to Prospective Bidders. No subsections found.
22.606 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.101-3 Reporting labor disputes. No subsections found.
15.604 Agency points of contact. (a) (a) Preliminary contact with agency technical or other appropriate personnel before preparing a detailed unsolicited proposal or submitting proprietary information to the Government may save considerable time and effort for both parties (see 15.201). Agencies must make available to potential offerors of unsolicited proposals at least the following information: (b) (b) Only the cognizant contracting officer has the authority to bind the Government regarding unsolicited proposals.
Subpart 4.20  Prohibition on Contracting for Hardware, Software, and Services Developed or Provided by Kaspersky Lab No subsections found.
52.103 Identification of provisions and clauses. (a) (a) Whenever any FAR provision or clause is used without deviation in a solicitation or contract, whether it is incorporated by reference or in full text, it shall be identified by number, title, and date. This identification shall also be used if the FAR provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation, except that the contracting officer shall then insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date. Solicited firms and contractors will be advised of the meaning of this insertion through the use of the (1) provision at 52.252-5, Authorized Deviations in Provisions, or (2) clause at 52.252-6, Authorized Deviations in Clauses. The above mentioned provision and clause are prescribed in 52.107(e) and (f). (b) (b) Any provision or clause that supplements the FAR whether it is incorporated by reference or in full text shall be clearly identified by number, title, date, and name of the regulation. When a supplemental provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation, insert "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation. (c) (c) A provision or clause of the type described in 52.101(b)(2)(i)(C) shall be identified by the title, date, and the name of the agency or suborganization within the agency that developed it. (d) (d) Except for provisions or	clauses covered by 52.103(c), the	following hypothetical examples illustrate how a provision or clause that	supplements the FAR shall be identified when it is incorporated in	solicitations and/or contracts by reference or in full text:
Subpart 26.2 - Major Disaster or Emergency Assistance Activities No subsections found.
26.301 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.1009-3 All possible places of performance identified. (a) (a) If the contracting officer can identify all the possible places or areas of performance (even though the actual place of performance will not be known until the successful offeror is chosen), the contracting officer shall obtain a wage determination for each locality where services may be performed (see 22.1008). (b) (b) If the contracting officer subsequently learns of any potential offerors in previously unidentified places before the closing date for submission of offers, the contracting officer shall-
34.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
36.509 Protection of existing vegetation, structures, equipment, utilities, and improvements. No subsections found.
Subpart 15.4 - Contract Pricing No subsections found.
42.705-2 Auditor determination procedure. (a) (a) Applicability and responsibility. (b) (b) Procedures.
8.705 Procedures. No subsections found.
52.236-2 Differing Site Conditions. (a) (a) The Contractor shall promptly, and before the conditions are disturbed, give a written notice to the Contracting Officer of- (b) (b) The Contracting Officer shall investigate the site conditions promptly after receiving the notice. If the conditions do materially so differ and cause an increase or decrease in the Contractor’s cost of, or the time required for, performing any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed as a result of the conditions, an equitable adjustment shall be made under this clause and the contract modified in writing accordingly. (c) (c) No request by the Contractor for an equitable adjustment to the contract under this clause shall be allowed, unless the Contractor has given the written notice required; provided, that the time prescribed in paragraph (a) of this clause for giving written notice may be extended by the Contracting Officer. (d) (d) No request by the Contractor for an equitable adjustment to the contract for differing site conditions shall be allowed if made after final payment under this contract.
19.305 Reviews of SDB status. (a) (a) SBA may initiate the review of SDB status on any firm that has represented itself to be an SDB on a prime contract or subcontract to a Federal prime contract whenever it receives credible information calling into question the SDB status of the firm. (b) (b) Requests for an SBA review of SDB status may be forwarded to the Small Business Administration, Associate Administrator for Business Development (AA/BD), 409 Third Street, SW, Washington, DC 20416. (c) (c) An SBA review of a subcontractor's SDB status differs from a formal protest. Protests of a concern's size as a prime contractor are processed under 19.302. Protests of a concern's size as a subcontractor are processed under 19.703(b).
14.202-4 Bid samples. (a) (a) Policy. (b) (b) When to use. The use of bid samples would be appropriate for products that must be suitable from the standpoint of balance, facility of use, general "feel," color, pattern, or other characteristics that cannot be described adequately in the specification. However, when more than a minor portion of the characteristics of the product cannot be adequately described in the specification, products should be acquired by two-step sealed bidding or negotiation, as appropriate. (c) (c) Justification. The reasons why acceptable products cannot be acquired without the submission of bid samples shall be set forth in the contract file, except where the submission is required by the formal specifications (Federal, Military, or other) applicable to the acquisition. (d) (d) Requirements for samples in invitations for bids. (e) (e) Waiver of requirement for bid samples. (f) (f) Unsolicited samples. Bid samples furnished with a bid that are not required by the invitation generally will not be considered as qualifying the bid and will be disregarded. However, the bid sample will not be disregarded if it is clear from the bid or accompanying papers that the bidder’s intention was to qualify the bid. (See 14.404-2(d) if the qualification does not conform to the solicitation.) (g) (g) Handling bid samples.
52.219-28 Postaward Small Business Program Rerepresentation. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) If the Contractor represented that it was any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3) prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size and socioeconomic status according to paragraph (f) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (h) of this clause, upon occurrence of any of the following: (c) (c) If the Contractor represented its status as any of the small business concerns identified at 19.000(a)(3) prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size and socioeconomic status according to paragraph (f) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (h) of this clause, for the NAICS code assigned to an order (except that paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this clause do not apply to an order issued under a Federal Supply Schedule contract at subpart 8.4)— (d) (d) The Contractor shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of this rerepresentation that corresponds to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code(s) assigned to this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to this NAICS code(s) can be found at https://www.sba.gov/document/support--table-size-standards. (e) (e) The small business size standard for a Contractor providing an end item that it does not manufacture, process, or produce itself, for a contract other than a construction or service contract, is 500 employees, or 150 employees for information technology value-added resellers under NAICS code 541519, if the acquisition— (f) (f)  Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the representation(s) required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause by validating or updating all its representations in the Representations and Certifications section of the System for Award Management (SAM) and its other data in SAM, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing within the timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause, or with its offer for an order (see paragraph (c) of this clause), that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the date of the validation or update. (g) (g) If the Contractor represented that it was other than a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor may, but is not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs (f) or (h) of this clause. (h) (h) If the Contractor does not have representations and certifications in SAM, or does not have a representation in SAM for the NAICS code applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to complete the following rerepresentation and submit it to the contracting office, along with the contract number and the date on which the rerepresentation was completed:
16.304 Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts. No subsections found.
33.106 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.233-2, Service of Protest, in solicitations for contracts expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.233-3, Protest After Award, in all solicitations and contracts. If a cost reimbursement contract is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I.
29.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
3.503-2 Contract clause. No subsections found.
Part 45 - Government Property No subsections found.
47.304 Determination of delivery terms. No subsections found.
42.800 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Issuing notices of intent to disallow costs; and (b) (b) Disallowing costs already incurred during the course of performance.
35.009 Subcontracting research and development effort. No subsections found.
12.603 Streamlined solicitation for commercial products or commercial services. (a) (a) When a written solicitation will be issued, the contracting officer may use the following procedure to reduce the time required to solicit and award contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. This procedure combines the synopsis required by 5.203 and the issuance of the solicitation into a single document. (b) (b) When using the combined synopsis/solicitation procedure, the SF1449 is not used for issuing the solicitation. (c) (c) To use these procedures, the contracting officer shall-
3.203 Reporting suspected violations of the Gratuities clause. (a) (a) What to report and how to report it; and (b) (b) The channels through which reports must pass, including the function and authority of each official designated to review them.
44.202-2 Considerations. (a) (a) The contracting officer responsible for consent must, at a minimum, review the request and supporting data and consider the following: (b) (b) Particularly careful and thorough consideration under paragraph (a) of this section is necessary when-
37.401 Policy. (a) (a) State that the contract is a nonpersonal health care services contract, as defined in 37.101, under which the contractor is an independent contractor; (b) (b) State that the Government may evaluate the quality of professional and administrative services provided, but retains no control over the medical, professional aspects of services rendered (e.g., professional judgments, diagnosis for specific medical treatment); (c) (c) Require that the contractor indemnify the Government for any liability producing act or omission by the contractor, its employees and agents occurring during contract performance; (d) (d) Require that the contractor maintain medical liability insurance, in a coverage amount acceptable to the contracting officer, which is not less than the amount normally prevailing within the local community for the medical specialty concerned; and (e) (e) State that the contractor is required to ensure that its subcontracts for provisions of health care services, contain the requirements of the clause at 52.237-7, including the maintenance of medical liability insurance.
25.601 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.222-30 Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (None or Separately Specified Method). (a) (a) The wage determination issued under the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute by the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, that is effective for an option to extend the term of the contract, will apply to that option period. (b) (b) The Contracting Officer will make no adjustment in contract price, other than provided for elsewhere in this contract, to cover any increases or decreases in wages and benefits as a result of-
52.246-10 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.208-6 Marking of Leased Vehicles. (a) (a) The Government may place nonpermanent markings or decals, identifying the using agency, on each side, and on the front and rear bumpers, of any motor vehicle leased under this contract. The Government shall use markings or decals that are removable without damage to the vehicle. (b) (b) The Contractor may use placards for temporary identification of vehicles except that the placards may not contain any references to the Contractor that may be construed as advertising or endorsement by the Government of the Contractor.
36.510 Operations and storage areas. No subsections found.
9.106-2 Requests for preaward surveys. (a) (a) Identify additional factors about which information is needed; (b) (b) Include the complete solicitation package (unless it has previously been furnished), and any information indicating prior unsatisfactory performance by the prospective contractor; (c) (c) State whether the contracting office will participate in the survey; (d) (d) Specify the date by which the report is required. This date should be consistent with the scope of the survey requested and normally shall allow at least 7 working days to conduct the survey; and (e) (e) When appropriate, limit the scope of the survey.
9.404 Exclusions in the System for Award Management. (a) (a) The General Services Administration (GSA)— (b) (b) An exclusion record in SAM contains the— (c) (c) Each agency must— (d) (d) SAM is available via https://www.sam.gov.
52.219-15 [Reserved] No subsections found.
31.205-36 Rental costs. (a) (a) This subsection is applicable to the cost of renting or leasing real or personal property acquired under "operating leases" as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC) 840, Leases. (See 31.205-11 for Capital Leases.) (b) (b) The following costs are allowable: (c) (c) The allowability of rental costs under unexpired leases in connection with terminations is treated in 31.205-42(e).
10.002 Procedures. (a) (a) Acquisitions begin with a description of the Government’s needs stated in terms sufficient to allow conduct of market research. (b) (b) Market research is then conducted to determine if commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items are available to meet the Government’s needs or could be modified to meet the Government’s needs. (c) (c) If market research indicates commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items might not be available to satisfy agency needs, agencies shall reevaluate the need in accordance with 10.001(a)(3)(ii) and determine whether the need can be restated to permit commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items to satisfy the agency’s needs. (d) (d) (e) (e) The head of the agency shall document the results of market research in a manner appropriate to the size and complexity of the acquisition.
52.247-60 Guaranteed Shipping Characteristics. (a) (a) The offeror is requested to complete paragraph (a)(1) of this clause, for each part or component which is packed or packaged separately. This information will be used to determine transportation costs for evaluation purposes. If the offeror does not furnish sufficient data in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause, to permit determination by the Government of the item shipping costs, evaluation will be based on the shipping characteristics submitted by the offeror whose offer produces the highest transportation costs or in the absence thereof, by the Contracting Officer’s best estimate of the actual transportation costs. If the item shipping costs, based on the actual shipping characteristics, exceed the item shipping costs used for evaluation purposes, the Contractor agrees that the contract price shall be reduced by an amount equal to the difference between the transportation costs actually incurred, and the costs which would have been incurred if the evaluated shipping characteristics had been accurate. (b) (b) The guaranteed shipping characteristics requested in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause do not establish actual transportation requirements, which are specified elsewhere in this solicitation. The guaranteed shipping characteristics will be used only for the purpose of evaluating offers and establishing any liability of the successful offeror for increased transportation costs resulting from actual shipping characteristics which differ from those used for evaluation in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause.
25.408 Procedures. (a) (a) If the WTO GPA or an FTA applies (see 25.401), the contracting officer must- (b) (b) See subpart  25.5 for evaluation procedures and examples.
1.402 Policy. No subsections found.
28.204-4 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.225-10 Notice of Buy American Requirement-Construction Materials. (a) (a) Definitions. "Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "construction material," "domestic construction material," and "foreign construction material," as used in this provision, are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Construction Materials" (Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.225-9). (b) (b) Requests for determinations of inapplicability. An offeror requesting a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy American statute should submit the request to the Contracting Officer in time to allow a determination before submission of offers. The offeror shall include the information and applicable supporting data required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of the clause at FAR 52.225-9 in the request. If an offeror has not requested a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy American statute before submitting its offer, or has not received a response to a previous request, the offeror shall include the information and supporting data in the offer. (c) (c) Evaluation of offers. (d) (d) Alternate offers.
27.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
32.502-4 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) If the contractor is a small business concern, use the clause with its AlternateI. (c) (c) If the contract is a letter contract, use the clause with its AlternateII. (d) (d) If the contractor is not a small business concern, and progress payments are authorized under an indefinite-delivery contract, basic ordering agreement, or their equivalent, use the clause with its AlternateIII. (e) (e) If the nature of the contract necessitates separate progress payment rates for portions of work that are clearly severable and accounting segregation would be maintained (e.g., annual production requirements), describe the application of separate progress payment rates in a supplementary special provision within the contract. The contractor must submit separate progress payment requests and subsequent invoices for the severable portions of work in order to maintain accounting integrity.
52.219-4 Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns. (a) (a) Evaluation preference. (b) (b) Waiver of evaluation preference. A HUBZone small business concern may elect to waive the evaluation preference, in which case the factor will be added to its offer for evaluation purposes. (c) (c) Joint venture. A HUBZone joint venture agrees that, in the performance of the contract, at least 40 percent of the aggregate work performed by the joint venture shall be completed by the HUBZone small business parties to the joint venture. Work performed by the HUBZone small business parties to the joint venture must be more than administrative functions.
52.227-20 Rights in Data-SBIR Program. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Allocation of rights. (c) (c) Copyright- (d) (d) Rights to SBIR data. (e) (e) Omitted or incorrect markings. (f) (f) Protection of limited rights data and restricted computer software. The Contractor may withhold from delivery qualifying limited rights data and restricted computer software that are not identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause. As a condition to this withholding, the Contractor shall identify the data being withheld, and furnish form, fit, and function data instead. (g) (g) Subcontracting. The Contractor shall obtain from its subcontractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Contractor’s obligations to the Government under this contract. If a subcontractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government those rights, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the refusal and not proceed with the subcontract award without further authorization in writing from the Contracting Officer. (h) (h) Relationship to patents. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government.
Subpart 47.4 - Air Transportation by U.S.-Flag Carriers No subsections found.
52.246-6 Inspection-Time-and-Material and Labor-Hour. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the material, fabricating methods, work, and services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all materials furnished and services performed under this contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect the plant or plants of the Contractor or any subcontractor engaged in contract performance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) (d) If the Government performs inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (e) (e) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Government shall accept or reject services and materials at the place of delivery as promptly as practicable after delivery, and they shall be presumed accepted 60 days after the date of delivery, unless accepted earlier. (f) (f) At any time during contract performance, but not later than 6 months (or such other time as may be specified in the contract) after acceptance of the services or materials last delivered under this contract, the Government may require the Contractor to replace or correct services or materials that at time of delivery failed to meet contract requirements. Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (h) of this clause, the cost of replacement or correction shall be determined under the Payments Under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts clause, but the "hourly rate" for labor hours incurred in the replacement or correction shall be reduced to exclude that portion of the rate attributable to profit. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance materials and services required to be replaced or corrected without disclosing the former requirement for replacement or correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken. (g) (g) (h) (h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this clause, the Government may at any time require the Contractor to remedy by correction or replacement, without cost to the Government, any failure by the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this contract, if the failure is due to- (i) (i) This clause applies in the same manner and to the same extent to corrected or replacement materials or services as to materials and services originally delivered under this contract. (j) (j) The Contractor has no obligation or liability under this contract to correct or replace materials and services that at time of delivery do not meet contract requirements, except as provided in this clause or as may be otherwise specified in the contract. (k) (k) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor’s obligation to correct or replace Government-furnished property shall be governed by the clause pertaining to Government property.
53.202 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 1.4 - Deviations from the FAR No subsections found.
4.2105 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.204-24, Representation Regarding Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment– (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment, in all solicitations and contracts. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.204-26, Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation, in all solicitations.
Subpart 11.3 - Acceptable Material No subsections found.
52.232-5 Payments under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts. (a) (a) Payment of price. The Government shall pay the Contractor the contract price as provided in this contract. (b) (b) Progress payments. The Government shall make progress payments monthly as the work proceeds, or at more frequent intervals as determined by the Contracting Officer, on estimates of work accomplished which meets the standards of quality established under the contract, as approved by the Contracting Officer. (c) (c) Contractor certification. Along with each request for progress payments, the Contractor shall furnish the following certification, or payment shall not be made: (However, if the Contractor elects to delete paragraph (c)(4) from the certification, the certification is still acceptable.) (d) (d) Refund of unearned amounts. If the Contractor, after making a certified request for progress payments, discovers that a portion or all of such request constitutes a payment for performance by the Contractor that fails to conform to the specifications, terms, and conditions of this contract (hereinafter referred to as the "unearned amount"), the Contractor shall- (e) (e) Retainage. If the Contracting Officer finds that satisfactory progress was achieved during any period for which a progress payment is to be made, the Contracting Officer shall authorize payment to be made in full. However, if satisfactory progress has not been made, the Contracting Officer may retain a maximum of 10 percent of the amount of the payment until satisfactory progress is achieved. When the work is substantially complete, the Contracting Officer may retain from previously withheld funds and future progress payments that amount the Contracting Officer considers adequate for protection of the Government and shall release to the Contractor all the remaining withheld funds. Also, on completion and acceptance of each separate building, public work, or other division of the contract, for which the price is stated separately in the contract, payment shall be made for the completed work without retention of a percentage. (f) (f) Title, liability, and reservation of rights. All material and work covered by progress payments made shall, at the time of payment, become the sole property of the Government, but this shall not be construed as- (g) (g) Reimbursement for bond premiums. In making these progress payments, the Government shall, upon request, reimburse the Contractor for the amount of premiums paid for performance and payment bonds (including coinsurance and reinsurance agreements, when applicable) after the Contractor has furnished evidence of full payment to the surety. The retainage provisions in paragraph (e) of this clause shall not apply to that portion of progress payments attributable to bond premiums. (h) (h) Final payment. The Government shall pay the amount due the Contractor under this contract after- (i) (i) Limitation because of undefinitized work. Notwithstanding any provision of this contract, progress payments shall not exceed 80 percent on work accomplished on undefinitized contract actions. A "contract action" is any action resulting in a contract, as defined in FAR subpart  2.1, including contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but not including contract modifications that are within the scope and under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications issued pursuant to the Changes clause, or funding and other administrative changes. (j) (j) Interest computation on unearned amounts. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3903(c)(1), the amount payable under paragraph (d)(2) of this clause shall be-
19.702 Statutory requirements. (a) (a) (b) (b) Subcontracting plans (see paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section) are not required– (c) (c) As stated in 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(9), any contractor or subcontractor failing to comply in good faith with the requirements of the subcontracting plan is in material breach of its contract. Further, 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F) directs that a contractor’s failure to make a good faith effort to comply with the requirements of the subcontracting plan shall result in the imposition of liquidated damages. (d) (d) As authorized by 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(12), certain costs incurred by a mentor firm in providing developmental assistance to a protégé firm under the Department of Defense Mentor-Protégé Program, may be credited as if they were subcontract awards to a protégé firm for the purpose of determining whether the mentor firm attains the applicable goals under any subcontracting plan entered into with any executive agency. However, the mentor-protégé agreement must have been approved by the Director, Small Business Programs of the cognizant DoD military department or defense agency, before developmental assistance costs may be credited against subcontract goals. A list of approved agreements may be obtained at https://business.defense.gov/Programs/Mentor-Protege-Program/. (e) (e) In accordance with 15 U.S.C. 657r(a), a mentor with an SBA-approved mentor-protégé agreement (see 13 CFR 125.9) that provides a subcontract to its protégé may apply the costs incurred for training it provides to its protégé toward its subcontracting plan goals, provided that protégé is a covered territory business or that protégé has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
44.203 Consent limitations. (a) (a) The contracting officer’s consent to a subcontract or approval of the contractor’s purchasing system does not constitute a determination of the acceptability of the subcontract terms or price, or of the allowability of costs, unless the consent or approval specifies otherwise. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall not consent to- (c) (c) Contracting officers should not refuse consent to a subcontract merely because it contains a clause giving the subcontractor the right of indirect appeal to an agency board of contract appeals if the subcontractor is affected by a dispute between the Government and the prime contractor. Indirect appeal means assertion by the subcontractor of the prime contractor’s right to appeal or the prosecution of an appeal by the prime contractor on the subcontractor’s behalf. The clause may also provide that the prime contractor and subcontractor shall be equally bound by the contracting officer’s or board’s decision. The clause may not attempt to obligate the contracting officer or the appeals board to decide questions that do not arise between the Government and the prime contractor or that are not cognizable under the clause at 52.233-1, Disputes.
52.223-7 Notice of Radioactive Materials. (a) (a) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer or designee, in writing, ______________*days prior to the delivery of, or prior to completion of any servicing required by this contract of, items containing either (1) radioactive material requiring specific licensing under the regulations issued pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of1954, as amended, as set forth in Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in effect on the date of this contract, or (2) other radioactive material not requiring specific licensing in which the specific activity is greater than 0.002 microcuries per gram or the activity per item equals or exceeds 0.01 microcuries. Such notice shall specify the part or parts of the items which contain radioactive materials, a description of the materials, the name and activity of the isotope, the manufacturer of the materials, and any other information known to the Contractor which will put users of the items on notice as to the hazards involved (OMB No.9000-0107). (b) (b) If there has been no change affecting the quantity of activity, or the characteristics and composition of the radioactive material from deliveries under this contract or prior contracts, the Contractor may request that the Contracting Officer or designee waive the notice requirement in paragraph (a) of this clause. Any such request shall- (c) (c) All items, parts, or subassemblies which contain radioactive materials in which the specific activity is greater than 0.002 microcuries per gram or activity per item equals or exceeds 0.01 microcuries, and all containers in which such items, parts or subassemblies are delivered to the Government shall be clearly marked and labeled as required by the latest revision of MIL-STD 129 in effect on the date of the contract. (d) (d) This clause, including this paragraph (d), shall be inserted in all subcontracts for radioactive materials meeting the criteria in paragraph (a) of this clause.
Subpart 8.1 - Excess Personal Property No subsections found.
49.108-4 Authorization for subcontract settlements without approval or ratification. (a) (a) (b) (b) Section 45.602 shall apply to disposal of completed end items allocable to the terminated subcontract. However, these items may be disposed of without review by the TCO under 49.108-3 and without screening under 45.602-3, if the items do not require demilitarization and the total amount (at the subcontract price) when added to the amount of the settlement does not exceed the amount authorized under this subsection. (c) (c) A TCO granting the authorization in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall periodically (at least annually) make a selective review of settlements and settlement procedures to determine if the contractor is making adequate reviews and fair settlements, and whether the authorization should remain in effect. The TCO shall obtain the advice and recommendations of the appropriate audit agency and the cognizant plant clearance officer. When it is determined that the contractor’s procedures are not adequate, or that improper settlements are being made, or when the authority has not been used in the preceding 2 years, the TCO shall revoke the authorization by written notice to the contractor, effective on the date of receipt. (d) (d) The contractor may make any number of separate settlements with a single subcontractor but shall not divide settlement proposals solely to bring them under an authorization limit. Separate settlement proposals that would normally be included in a single proposal, such as those based on a series of separate orders for the same item under one contract, shall be consolidated whenever possible. (e) (e) Upon written request of the contractor, the TCO may increase an authorization granted under paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection to authorize the contractor to conclude settlements under a particular prime contract. The TCO may limit the increased authorization to specific subcontracts or classes of subcontracts. (f) (f) Authorizations granted	under this 49.108-4 shall	not authorize the settlement of requisitions or orders placed with any unit	within the contractor’s corporate entity. (g) (g) Recommended formats for a request to settle subcontractor settlement proposals and the TCO’s letter of authorization to the contractor are in 49.605 and 49.606, respectively.
15.203 Requests for proposals. (a) (a) Requests for proposals (RFPs) are used in negotiated acquisitions to communicate Government requirements to prospective contractors and to solicit proposals. RFPs for competitive acquisitions shall, at a minimum, describe the- (b) (b) An RFP may be issued for OMB CircularA-76 studies. See subpart  7.3 for additional information regarding cost comparisons between Government and contractor performance. (c) (c) Electronic commerce may be used to issue RFPs and to receive proposals, modifications, and revisions. In this case, the RFP shall specify the electronic commerce method(s) that offerors may use (see subpart  4.5). (d) (d) Contracting officers may issue RFPs and/or authorize receipt of proposals, modifications, or revisions by facsimile. (e) (e) Letter RFPs may be used in sole source acquisitions and other appropriate circumstances. Use of a letter RFP does not relieve the contracting officer from complying with other FAR requirements. Letter RFPs should be as complete as possible and, at a minimum, should contain the following: (f) (f) Oral RFPs are authorized when processing a written solicitation would delay the acquisition of supplies or services to the detriment of the Government and a notice is not required under 5.202(e.g., perishable items and support of contingency operations or other emergency situations). Use of an oral RFP does not relieve the contracting officer from complying with other FAR requirements.
32.409 Contracting officer action. No subsections found.
4.603 Policy. (a) (a) In accordance with the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282), all unclassified Federal award data must be publicly accessible. (b) (b) Executive agencies shall use FPDS to maintain publicly available information about all unclassified contract actions exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, and any modifications to those actions that change previously reported contract action report data, regardless of dollar value. (c) (c) Agencies awarding assisted acquisitions or direct acquisitions must report these actions and identify the Program/Funding Agency and Office Codes from the applicable agency codes maintained by each agency at FPDS. These codes represent the agency and office that has provided the predominant amount of funding for the contract action. For assisted acquisitions, the requesting agency will receive socioeconomic credit for meeting agency small business goals, where applicable. Requesting agencies shall provide the appropriate agency/bureau component code as part of the written interagency agreement between the requesting and servicing agencies (see 17.502-1(a)(1)). (d) (d) Agencies awarding contract actions with a mix of appropriated and non-appropriated funding shall only report the full appropriated portion of the contract action in FPDS.
14.408-7 Documentation of award. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall document compliance with 14.103-2 in the contract file. (b) (b) The documentation shall either state that the accepted bid was the lowest bid received, or list all lower bids with reasons for their rejection in sufficient detail to justify the award. (c) (c) When an award is made after receipt of equal low bids, the documentation shall describe how the tie was broken.
52.214-28 Subcontractor Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications-Sealed Bidding. (a) (a) The requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause shall- (b) (b) Before awarding any subcontract expected to exceed the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1), on the date of agreement on price or the date of award, whichever is later, or before pricing any subcontract modifications involving aggregate increases and/or decreases in costs, plus applicable profits, expected to exceed the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1), the Contractor shall require the subcontractor to submit certified cost or pricing data (actually or by specific identification in writing), as part of the subcontractor’s proposal in accordance with FAR 15.408, Table 15-2 (to include any information reasonably required to explain the subcontractor’s estimating process such as the judgmental factors applied and the mathematical or other methods used in the estimate, including those used in projecting from known data, and the nature and amount of any contingencies included in the price), unless an exception under FAR 15.403-1(b) applies. If the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data specified in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1) is adjusted for inflation as set forth in FAR 1.109(a), then pursuant to FAR 1.109(d) the changed threshold applies throughout the remaining term of the contract, unless there is a subsequent threshold adjustment. (c) (c) The Contractor shall require the subcontractor to certify in substantially the form prescribed in FAR subsection 15.406-2 that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the data submitted under paragraph (b) of this clause were accurate, complete, and current as of the date of agreement on the negotiated price of the subcontract or subcontract modification. (d) (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in each subcontract that, when entered into, exceeds the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1).
Subpart 22.5 - Use of Project Labor Agreements for Federal Construction Projects No subsections found.
52.216-18 Ordering. (a) (a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from __________ through ____________ [insert dates]. (b) (b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c) (c) A delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when— (d) (d) Orders may be issued by methods other than those enumerated in this clause only if authorized in the contract.
47.207-1 Qualifications of offerors. (a) (a) Operating authorities. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-2, Permits, Authorities, or Franchises, when regulated transportation is involved. The clause need not be used when a Federal office move is intrastate and the contracting officer determines that it is in the Government’s interest not to apply the requirement for holding or obtaining State authority to operate within the State. (b) (b) Performance capability for Federal office moving contracts. (c) (c) Inspection of shipping and receiving facilities. The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.247-4, Inspection of Shipping and Receiving Facilities, when it is desired for offerors to inspect the shipping, receiving, or other sites to ensure realistic bids. (d) (d) Familiarization with conditions. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-5, Familiarization with Conditions, to ensure that offerors become familiar with conditions under which and where the services will be performed. (e) (e) Financial statement. The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.247-6, Financial Statement, to ensure that offerors are prepared to furnish financial statements.
Subpart 32.10 - Performance-Based Payments No subsections found.
30.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.210-1 Market Research. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Before awarding subcontracts for other than commercial acquisitions, where the subcontracts are over the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101 on the date of subcontract award, the Contractor shall conduct market research to—
22.201 General. (a) (a) Executive Order 11755, December 29,1973, as amended by Executive Order 12608, September 9,1987, and Executive Order 12943, December 13,1994, states: "The development of the occupational and educational skills of prison inmates is essential to their rehabilitation and to their ability to make an effective return to free society. Meaningful employment serves to develop those skills. It is also true, however, that care must be exercised to avoid either the exploitation of convict labor or any unfair competition between convict labor and free labor in the production of goods and services." The Executive order does not prohibit the contractor, in performing the contract, from employing- (b) (b) Department of Justice regulations authorize the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance to exercise the power and authority vested in the Attorney General by the Executive order to certify and to revoke the certification of work-release laws or regulations (see 28 CFR0.94-1(b)).
17.402 Limitations. (a) (a) Leader company contracting is to be used only when- (b) (b) When leader company contracting is used, the Government shall reserve the right to approve subcontracts between the leader company and the follower(s).
6.002 Limitations. No subsections found.
31.110 Indirect cost rate certification and penalties on unallowable costs. (a) (a) Certain contracts require certification of the indirect cost rates proposed for final payment purposes. See 42.703-2 for administrative procedures regarding the certification provisions and the related contract clause prescription. (b) (b) If unallowable costs are included in final indirect cost settlement proposals, penalties may be assessed. See 42.709 for administrative procedures regarding the penalty assessment provisions and the related contract clause prescription.
22.1103 Policy, procedures, and solicitation provision. No subsections found.
19.810 SBA appeals. (a) (a) The SBA Administrator may submit the following matters for determination to the agency head if the SBA and the contracting officer fail to agree on them: (b) (b) (c) (c) If the SBA appeal is denied, the decision of the agency head shall specify the reasons for the denial, including the reasons why the selected participant was determined incapable of performance, if appropriate. The decision shall be made a part of the contract file.
32.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
13.105 Synopsis and posting requirements. (a) (a) The contracting officer must comply with the public display and synopsis requirements of 5.101 and 5.203 unless an exception in 5.202 applies. (b) (b) When acquiring commercial products or commercial services, or supplies or services procured in accordance with 12.102(f)(1), the contracting officer may use a combined synopsis and solicitation. In these cases, a separate solicitation is not required. The contracting officer must include enough information to permit suppliers to develop quotations or offers. (c) (c) See 5.102(a)(6) for the requirement to post a brand name justification or documentation required by 13.106-1(b) or 13.501. (d) (d) When publicizing contract actions funded in whole or in part by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5):
52.214-15 Period for Acceptance of Bids. No subsections found.
46.402 Government contract quality assurance at source. (a) (a) Performance at any other place would require uneconomical disassembly or destructive testing; (b) (b) Considerable loss would result from the manufacture and shipment of unacceptable supplies, or from the delay in making necessary corrections; (c) (c) Special required instruments, gauges, or facilities are available only at source; (d) (d) Performance at any other place would destroy or require the replacement of costly special packing and packaging; (e) (e) Government inspection during contract performance is essential; or (f) (f) It is determined for other reasons to be in the Government’s interest.
52.216-25 Contract Definitization. (a) (a) A ______________	[insert specific type of contract] definitive contract	is contemplated. The Contractor agrees to begin promptly negotiating	with the Contracting Officer the terms of a definitive contract	that will include (1) all clauses required by the Federal Acquisition	Regulation (FAR) on the date of execution of the letter contract,	(2) all clauses required by law on the date of execution of the	definitive contract, and (3) any other mutually agreeable clauses, terms,	and conditions. The Contractor agrees to submit a ______	[insert specific type of proposal (e.g., fixed-price or cost-and-fee)] proposal,	including data other than certified cost or pricing data, and certified	cost or pricing data, in accordance with FAR 15.408, Table  15-1, supporting	its proposal. (b) (b) The schedule for definitizing this contract is [insert target date for definitization of the contract and dates for submission of proposal, beginning of negotiations, and, if appropriate, submission of make-or-buy and subcontracting plans and certified cost or pricing data]: ___________________________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________________________________________ (c) (c) If agreement	on a definitive contract to supersede this letter contract is not	reached by the target date in paragraph (b) of this section, or	within any extension of it granted by the Contracting Officer, the	Contracting Officer may, with the approval of the head of the contracting	activity, determine a reasonable price or fee in accordance with subpart  15.4 and part  31 of the FAR,	subject to Contractor appeal as provided in the Disputes clause.	In any event, the Contractor shall proceed with completion of the	contract, subject only to the Limitation of Government Liability	clause.
52.228-10 Vehicular and General Public Liability Insurance. (a) (a) The Contractor, at the Contractor’s expense, agrees to maintain, during the continuance of this contract, vehicular liability and general public liability insurance with limits of liability for- (b) (b) The Contractor also agrees to maintain workers’ compensation and other legally required insurance with respect to the Contractor’s own employees and agents.
52.245-7 [Reserved] No subsections found.
53.103 Exceptions. (a) (a) Alter a standard form prescribed by this regulation; or (b) (b) Use for the same purpose any form other than the standard form prescribed by this regulation without receiving in advance an exception to the form.
49.305 Adjustment of fee. No subsections found.
5.204 Presolicitation notices. No subsections found.
52.232-14 Notice of Availability of Progress Payments Exclusively for Small Business Concerns. No subsections found.
52.229-3 Federal, State, and Local Taxes. (a) (a) As used in this clause- (b) (b) (c) (c) The contract price shall be increased by the amount of any after-imposed Federal tax, provided the Contractor warrants in writing that no amount for such newly imposed Federal excise tax or duty or rate increase was included in the contract price, as a contingency reserve or otherwise. (d) (d) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any after-relieved Federal tax. (e) (e) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any Federal excise tax or duty, except social security or other employment taxes, that the Contractor is required to pay or bear, or does not obtain a refund of, through the Contractor’s fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer. (f) (f) No adjustment shall be made in the contract price under this clause unless the amount of the adjustment exceeds $250. (g) (g) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of all matters relating to any Federal excise tax or duty that reasonably may be expected to result in either an increase or decrease in the contract price and shall take appropriate action as the Contracting Officer directs. (h) (h) The Government shall, without liability, furnish evidence appropriate to establish exemption from any Federal, State, or local tax when the Contractor requests such evidence and a reasonable basis exists to sustain the exemption.
47.303-6 F.o.b. destination. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. destination"- means- (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-34, F.o.b. Destination, when the delivery term is f.o.b. destination.
14.402-3 Postponement of openings. (a) (a) A bid opening may be postponed even after the time scheduled for bid opening (but otherwise in accordance with 14.208) when- (b) (b) At the time of a determination to postpone a bid opening under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an announcement of the determination shall be publicly posted. If practical before issuance of a formal amendment of the invitation, the determination shall be otherwise communicated to prospective bidders who are likely to attend the scheduled bid opening. (c) (c) In the case of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and when urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation as prescribed in 14.208, the time specified for opening of bids will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. In such cases, the time of actual bid opening shall be deemed to be the time set for bid opening for the purpose of determining "late bids" under 14.304. A note should be made on the abstract of bids or otherwise added to the file explaining the circumstances of the postponement.
9.105-3 Disclosure of preaward information. (a) (a) Except as provided in subpart  24.2, Freedom of Information Act, information (including the preaward survey report) accumulated for purposes of determining the responsibility of a prospective contractor shall not be released or disclosed outside the Government. (b) (b) The contracting officer may discuss preaward survey information with the prospective contractor before determining responsibility. After award, the contracting officer or, if it is appropriate, the head of the surveying activity or a designee may discuss the findings of the preaward survey with the company surveyed. (c) (c) Preaward survey information may contain proprietary or source selection information and should be marked with the appropriate legend and protected accordingly (see 3.104-4).
16.207-3 Limitations. (a) (a) The work required cannot otherwise be clearly defined; (b) (b) The required level of effort is identified and agreed upon in advance; (c) (c) There is reasonable assurance that the intended result cannot be achieved by expending less than the stipulated effort; and (d) (d) The contract price is the simplified acquisition threshold or less, unless approved by the chief of the contracting office.
45.604 Sale of surplus personal property. No subsections found.
1.703 Class determinations and findings. (a) (a) A class D&F provides authority for a class of contract actions. A class may consist of contract actions for the same or related supplies or services or other contract actions that require essentially identical justification. (b) (b) The findings in a class D&F shall fully support the proposed action either for the class as a whole or for each action. A class D&F shall be for a specified period, with the expiration date stated in the document. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall ensure that individual actions taken pursuant to the authority of a class D&F are within the scope of the D&F.
Subpart 28.1 - Bonds and Other Financial Protections No subsections found.
32.501-5 Other protective terms. (a) (a) Personal or corporate guarantees. (b) (b) Subordinations or standbys of indebtedness. (c) (c) Special bank accounts. (d) (d) Protective covenants of the kinds in paragraph (p) of the clause at 52.232-12, Advance Payments. (e) (e) A provision, included in the solicitation and resultant contract when first article testing is required (see subpart  9.3), limiting progress payments on first article work by a stated amount or percentage.
22.404-4 Solicitations issued without wage determinations for the primary site of the work. (a) (a) If a solicitation is issued before the wage determination for the primary site of the work is obtained, a notice shall be included in the solicitation that the schedule of minimum wage rates to be paid under the contract will be issued as an amendment to the solicitation. (b) (b) In sealed bidding, bids may not be opened until a reasonable time after the wage determination for the primary site of the work has been furnished to all bidders. (c) (c) In negotiated acquisitions, the contracting officer may open proposals and conduct negotiations before obtaining the wage determination for the primary site of the work. However, the contracting officer shall incorporate the wage determination for the primary site of the work into the solicitation before submission of best and final offers.
27.301 Definitions. No subsections found.
22.805 Procedures. (a) (a) Preaward clearances for contracts and subcontracts of $10 million or more (excluding construction). (b) (b) Furnishing posters. The contracting officer shall furnish to the contractor appropriate quantities of the poster entitled "Equal Employment Opportunity Is The Law." These shall be obtained in accordance with agency procedures.
49.304-1 General. (a) (a) In a partial termination, the TCO shall limit the settlement to an adjustment of the fee, if any, and with the concurrence of the contracting office to a reduction in the estimated cost. The TCO shall adjust the fee as provided in 49.304-2 and 49.305, unless- (b) (b) In the case of the exceptions in paragraph (a), the procedures in 49.302 and 49.303 apply.
17.105-1 Uses. (a) (a) Except for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, the contracting officer may enter into a multi-year contract if the head of the contracting activity determines that- (b) (b) For DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, the head of the agency may enter into a multi-year contract for supplies if- (c) (c) The multi-year contracting method may be used for the acquisition of supplies or services. (d) (d) If funds are not appropriated to support the succeeding years’ requirements, the agency must cancel the contract.
3.102 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.226 [Reserved] No subsections found.
12.502 Procedures. (a) (a) The FAR prescription for the provision or clause for each of the laws listed in 12.503 has been revised in the appropriate part to reflect its proper application to prime contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. (b) (b) For subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services, the clauses at 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Products and Commercial Services, and 52.244-6, Subcontracts for Commercial Products and Commercial Services, reflect the applicability of the laws listed in 12.504 by identifying the only provisions and clauses that are required to be included in a subcontract at any tier for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. (c) (c) The FAR prescription for the provision or clause for each of the laws listed in 12.505 has been revised in the appropriate part to reflect its proper application to contracts and subcontracts for the acquisition of COTS items.
52.232-29 Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) Contractor entitlement to financing payments. The Contractor may request, and the Government shall pay, a contract financing payment as specified elsewhere in this contract when: the payment requested is properly due in accordance with this contract; the supplies deliverable or services due under the contract will be delivered or performed in accordance with the contract; and there has been no impairment or diminution of the Government’s security under this contract. (b) (b) Special terms regarding termination for cause. If this contract is terminated for cause, the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated contract financing payments. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Termination for Cause paragraph of the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (c) (c) Security for Government financing. In the event the Contractor fails to provide adequate security, as required in this contract, no financing payment shall be made under this contract. Upon receipt of adequate security, financing payments shall be made, including all previous payments to which the Contractor is entitled, in accordance with the terms of the provisions for contract financing. If at any time the Contracting Officer determines that the security provided by the Contractor is insufficient, the Contractor shall promptly provide such additional security as the Contracting Officer determines necessary. In the event the Contractor fails to provide such additional security, the Contracting Officer may collect or liquidate such security that has been provided and suspend further payments to the Contractor; and the Contractor shall repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated financing payments as the Contracting Officer at his sole discretion deems repayable. (d) (d) Reservation of rights. (e) (e) Content of Contractor's request for financing payment. The Contractor’s request for financing payment shall contain the following: (f) (f) Limitation on frequency of financing payments. Contractor financing payments shall be provided no more frequently than monthly. (g) (g) Dates for payment. A payment under this clause is a contract financing payment and not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act. The designated payment office will pay approved payment requests within 30 days of submittal of a proper request for payment. (h) (h) Conflict between terms of offeror and clause. In the event of any conflict between the terms proposed by the offeror in response to an invitation to propose financing terms (FAR 52.232-31) and the terms in this clause, the terms of this clause shall govern.
53.245 Government property. (a) (a) SF 120 (GSA), Report of Excess Personal Property, and SF 120A (GSA), Continuation Sheet (Report of Excess Personal Property). (See 45.602-3 and 41 CFR 102-36.215.) (b) (b) SF 126 (GSA), Report of Personal Property for Sale, and SF 126A (GSA), Report of Personal Property for Sale (Continuation Sheet). (See FPMR 101-45.303 (41 CFR101-45.303.)) (c) (c) SF 1423 (Rev.5/04), Inventory Verification Survey. (See 45.602-1(b)(1).) (d) (d) SF 1424 (Rev.5/2004), Inventory Disposal Report (See 45.605). SF 1424 is authorized for local reproduction. (e) (e) SF 1428 (Rev.6/2007), Inventory Disposal Schedule, and SF 1429 (Rev.5/2004), Inventory Disposal Schedule-Continuation Sheet. (See 45.602-1, 49.303-2, 52.245-1, and 53.249(b).) SF’s 1428 and 1429 are authorized for local reproduction.
14.201-5 PartIV-Representations and instructions. (a) (a) Section K, Representations, certifications, and other statements of bidders. Include in this section those solicitation provisions that require representations, certifications, or the submission of other information by bidders. (b) (b) Section L, Instructions, conditions, and notices to bidders. Insert in this section solicitation provisions and other information and instructions not required elsewhere to guide bidders. Invitations shall include the time and place for bid openings, and shall advise bidders that bids will be evaluated without discussions (see 52.214-10 and, for construction contracts, 52.214-19). (c) (c) Section M, Evaluation factors for award. Identify the price related factors other than the bid price that will be considered in evaluating bids and awarding the contract. See 14.201-8.
27.304-1 General. (a) (a) Status as small business concern or nonprofit organization. If an agency has reason to question the size or nonprofit status of the prospective contractor, the agency may require the prospective contractor to furnish evidence of its nonprofit status or may file a size protest in accordance with FAR 19.302. (b) (b) Exceptions. (c) (c) Greater rights determinations. Whenever the contract contains the clause at 52.227-13, Patent Rights-Ownership by the Government, or a patent rights clause modified pursuant to 27.303(e)(2), the contractor (or an employee-inventor of the contractor after consultation with the contractor) may request greater rights to an identified invention within the period specified in the clause. The contracting officer may grant requests for greater rights if the contracting officer determines that the interests of the United States and the general public will be better served. In making these determinations, the contracting officer shall consider at least the following objectives (see 37 CFR 401.3(b) and 401.15): (d) (d) Retention of rights by inventor. If the contractor elects not to retain title to a subject invention, the agency may consider and, after consultation with the contractor, grant requests for retention of rights by the inventor. Retention of rights by the inventor will be subject to the conditions in paragraphs (d) (except paragraph (d)(1)(i)), (e)(4), (f), (g), and (h) of the clause at 52.227-11, Patent Rights-Ownership by the Contractor. (e) (e) Government assignment to contractor of rights in Government employees’ inventions. When a Government employee is a co-inventor of an invention made under a contract with a small business concern or nonprofit organization, the agency employing the co-inventor may license or assign whatever rights it may acquire in the subject invention from its employee to the contractor, subject at least to the conditions of 35 U.S.C. 202-204. (f) (f) Revocation or modification of contractor’s minimum rights. Before revoking or modifying the contractor’s license in accordance with 27.302(i)(2), the contracting officer shall furnish the contractor a written notice of intention to revoke or modify the license. The agency shall allow the contractor at least 30 days (or another time as may be authorized for good cause by the contracting officer) after the notice to show cause why the license should not be revoked or modified. The contractor has the right to appeal, in accordance with applicable regulations in 37 CFR part 404 and agency licensing regulations, any decisions concerning the revocation or modification. (g) (g) Exercise of march-in rights. When exercising march-in rights, agencies shall follow the procedures set forth in 37 CFR 401.6. (h) (h) Licenses and assignments under contracts with nonprofit organizations. If the contractor is a nonprofit organization, paragraph (i) of the clause at 52.227-11 provides that certain contractor actions require agency approval.
3.905-2 Enforcement of orders. (a) (a) Whenever a contractor or subcontractor fails to comply with an order issued under 3.905–1(a)(2), the head of the agency concerned shall file an action for enforcement of the order in the U.S. district court for a district in which the reprisal was found to have occurred. In any action brought pursuant to this authority, the court may grant appropriate relief, including injunctive relief, compensatory and exemplary damages, and attorney fees and costs. The complainant employee upon whose behalf an order was issued may also file such an action or join in an action filed by the head of the agency. (b) (b) Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by an order issued under 3.905–1(a)(2) may obtain review of the order's conformance with 41 U.S.C. 4712 and its implementing regulations, in the U.S. court of appeals for a circuit in which the reprisal is alleged in the order to have occurred. No petition seeking such review may be filed more than 60 days after issuance of the order by the head of the agency. Filing such an appeal shall not act to stay the enforcement of the order of the head of an agency, unless a stay is specifically entered by the court.
32.1107 Payment information. No subsections found.
19.1501 [Reserved] No subsections found.
33.207 Contractor certification. (a) (a) Contractors shall provide the certification specified in paragraph (c) of this section when submitting any claim exceeding $100,000. (b) (b) The certification requirement does not apply to issues in controversy that have not been submitted as all or part of a claim. (c) (c) The certification shall state as follows: (d) (d) The aggregate amount of both increased and decreased costs shall be used in determining when the dollar thresholds requiring certification are met (see example in 15.403-4(a)(1)(iii) regarding certified cost or pricing data). (e) (e) The certification may be executed by any person authorized to bind the contractor with respect to the claim. (f) (f) A defective certification shall not deprive a court or an agency BCA of jurisdiction over that claim. Prior to the entry of a final judgment by a court or a decision by an agency BCA, however, the court or agency BCA shall require a defective certification to be corrected.
52.247-27 Contract Not Affected by Oral Agreement. No subsections found.
29.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
22.2104 Exclusions. (a) (a) Employees performing in connection with contracts covered by the E.O. for less than 20 percent of their work hours in a given workweek. This exclusion is inapplicable to employees performing on contracts covered by the E.O., i.e., those employees directly engaged in performing the specific work called for by the contract, at any point during the workweek (see 29 CFR 13.4(e)). (b) (b) Until the earlier of the date the agreement terminates or January 1, 2020, employees whose covered work is governed by a collective bargaining agreement ratified before September 30, 2016, that- (c) (c) The Government's unilateral exercise of a pre-negotiated option to renew an existing contract that does not contain the clause at 52.222-62 will not automatically trigger the application of that clause. (See definition of "new contract" at 29 CFR 13.2).
46.703 Criteria for use of warranties. (a) (a) Nature and use of the supplies or services. This includes such factors as- (b) (b) Cost. Warranty costs arise from- (c) (c) Administration and enforcement. The Government’s ability to enforce the warranty is essential to the effectiveness of any warranty. There must be some assurance that an adequate administrative system for reporting defects exists or can be established. The adequacy of a reporting system may depend upon such factors as the- (d) (d) Trade practice. In many instances an item is customarily warranted in the trade, and, as a result of that practice, the cost of an item to the Government will be the same whether or not a warranty is included. In those instances, it would be in the Government’s interest to include such a warranty. (e) (e) Reduced requirements. The contractor’s charge for assumption of added liability may be partially or completely offset by reducing the Government’s contract quality assurance requirements where the warranty provides adequate assurance of a satisfactory product.
28.106-2 Substitution of surety bonds. (a) (a) A new surety bond covering all or part of the obligations on a bond previously approved may be substituted for the original bond if approved by the head of the contracting activity, or as otherwise specified in agency regulation. (b) (b) When a new surety bond is approved, the contracting officer shall notify the principal and surety of the original bond of the effective date of the new bond.
52.215-22 Limitations on Pass-Through Charges-Identification of Subcontract Effort. (a) (a) Definitions. Added value, excessive pass-through charge, subcontract, and subcontractor, as used in this provision, are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Limitations on Pass-Through Charges" (FAR 52.215-23). (b) (b) General. The offeror’s proposal shall exclude excessive pass-through charges. (c) (c) Performance of work by the Contractor or a subcontractor.
6.303 Justifications. No subsections found.
52.211-9 Desired and Required	Time of Delivery. (a) (a) The	Government desires delivery to be made according to the following	schedule: (b) (b) Attention is directed to the Contract Award provision of the solicitation that provides that a written award or acceptance of offer mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror results in a binding contract. The Government will mail or otherwise furnish to the offeror an award or notice of award not later than the day the award is dated. Therefore, the offeror shall compute the time available for performance beginning with the actual date of award, rather than the date the written notice of award is received from the Contracting Officer through the ordinary mails. However, the Government will evaluate an offer that proposes delivery based on the Contractor’s date of receipt of the contract or notice of award by adding (1) five calendar days for delivery of the award through the ordinary mails, or (2) one working day if the solicitation states that the contract or notice of award will be transmitted electronically. (The term "working day" excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays.) If, as so computed, the offered delivery date is later than the required delivery date, the offer will be considered nonresponsive and rejected.
52.203-11 Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-"Lobbying contact" has the meaning provided at 2 U.S.C. 1602(8). The terms "agency," "influencing or attempting to influence," "officer or employee of an agency," "person," "reasonable compensation," and "regularly employed" are defined in the FAR clause of this solicitation entitled "Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions" (52.203-12). (b) (b) Prohibition. The prohibition and exceptions contained in the FAR clause of this solicitation entitled "Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions" (52.203-12) are hereby incorporated by reference in this provision. (c) (c) Certification. The offeror, by signing its offer, hereby certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress on its behalf in connection with the awarding of this contract. (d) (d) Disclosure. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (e) (e) Penalty. Submission of this certification and disclosure is a prerequisite for making or entering into this contract imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited under this provision or who fails to file or amend the disclosure required to be filed or amended by this provision, shall be subject to civil penalties as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1352. An imposition of a civil penalty does not prevent the Government from seeking any other remedy that may be applicable.
17.703 Policy. (a) (a) A DoD acquisition official may request a nondefense agency to conduct an acquisition on behalf of DoD in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold only if the head of the nondefense agency conducting the acquisition on DoD's behalf has certified that the agency will comply with applicable procurement requirements for that fiscal year except when waived in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. (b) (b) A nondefense agency is compliant with applicable procurement requirements if the procurement policies, procedures, and internal controls of the nondefense agency applicable to the procurement of supplies and services on behalf of DoD, and the manner in which they are administered, are adequate to ensure the compliance of the nondefense department or agency with- (c) (c) Within 30 days of the beginning of each fiscal year, submit nondefense agency certifications of compliance to Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting at: (d) (d) The DoD acquisition official, as defined at 17.701, shall provide to the servicing nondefense agency contracting officer any DoD-unique terms, conditions, other related statutes, regulations, directives, and other applicable requirements for incorporation into the order or contract. In the event there are no DoD-unique requirements beyond the FAR, the DoD acquisition official shall so inform the servicing nondefense agency contracting officer in writing. Nondefense agency contracting officers are responsible for ensuring support provided in response to DoD’s request complies with paragraph (b) of this section. (e) (e) Waiver. The limitation in paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to the acquisition of supplies and services on behalf of DoD by a nondefense agency during any fiscal year for which the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment has determined in writing that it is necessary in the interest of DoD to acquire supplies and services through the nondefense agency during the fiscal year. The written determination shall identify the acquisition categories to which the waiver applies. (f) (f) Nondefense agency certifications, waivers, and additional information are available at https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/cp/policy/interagency-acquisition.html.
52.217-12 Reverse Auction Services. (a) (a) Definitions. (b) (b) Duties of the reverse auction service provider. When providing reverse auction services to the Government, the Contractor shall—
3.807 Civil penalties. No subsections found.
49.402-8 Reporting Information. No subsections found.
32.501 General. No subsections found.
4.502 Policy. (a) (a) The Federal Government shall use electronic commerce whenever practicable or cost-effective. The use of terms commonly associated with paper transactions (e.g.,"copy," "document," "page," "printed," "sealed envelope," and "stamped") shall not be interpreted to restrict the use of electronic commerce. Contracting officers may supplement electronic transactions by using other media to meet the requirements of any contract action governed by the FAR (e.g., transmit hard copy of drawings). (b) (b) Agencies may exercise broad discretion in selecting the hardware and software that will be used in conducting electronic commerce. However, as required by 41 U.S.C. 2301, the head of each agency, after consulting with the Administrator of OFPP, shall ensure that systems, technologies, procedures, and processes used by the agency to conduct electronic commerce- (c) (c) Before using electronic commerce, the agency head shall ensure that the agency systems are capable of ensuring authentication and confidentiality commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm from loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of the information. (d) (d) Agencies may accept electronic signatures and records in connection with Government contracts.
15.102 Oral presentations. (a) (a) Oral presentations by offerors as requested by the Government may substitute for, or augment, written information. Use of oral presentations as a substitute for portions of a proposal can be effective in streamlining the source selection process. Oral presentations may occur at any time in the acquisition process, and are subject to the same restrictions as written information, regarding timing (see 15.208) and content (see 15.306). Oral presentations provide an opportunity for dialogue among the parties. Pre-recorded videotaped presentations that lack real-time interactive dialogue are not considered oral presentations for the purposes of this section, although they may be included in offeror submissions, when appropriate. (b) (b) The solicitation may require each offeror to submit part of its proposal through oral presentations. However, representations and certifications shall be submitted as required in the FAR provisions at 52.204-8(d) or 52.212-3(b), and a signed offer sheet (including any exceptions to the Government’s terms and conditions) shall be submitted in writing. (c) (c) Information pertaining to areas such as an offeror’s capability, past performance, work plans or approaches, staffing resources, transition plans, or sample tasks (or other types of tests) may be suitable for oral presentations. In deciding what information to obtain through an oral presentation, consider the following: (d) (d) When oral presentations are required, the solicitation shall provide offerors with sufficient information to prepare them. Accordingly, the solicitation may describe- (e) (e) The contracting officer shall maintain a record of oral presentations to document what the Government relied upon in making the source selection decision. The method and level of detail of the record (e.g., videotaping, audio tape recording, written record, Government notes, copies of offeror briefing slides or presentation notes) shall be at the discretion of the source selection authority. A copy of the record placed in the file may be provided to the offeror. (f) (f) When an oral presentation includes information that the parties intend to include in the contract as material terms or conditions, the information shall be put in writing. Incorporation by reference of oral statements is not permitted. (g) (g) If, during an oral presentation, the Government conducts discussions (see 15.306(d)), the Government must comply with 15.306 and 15.307.
9.407-2 Causes for suspension. (a) (a) The suspending and debarring official may suspend a contractor suspected, upon adequate evidence, of- (b) (b) Indictment for any of the causes in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes adequate evidence for suspension. (c) (c) The suspending and debarring official may upon adequate evidence also suspend a contractor for any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects the present responsibility of a Government contractor or subcontractor.
4.1102 Policy. (a) (a) Offerors and quoters are required	to be registered in SAM at the time an offer or quotation is submitted	in order to comply with the annual representations and certifications	requirements except for— (b) (b) If practical,	the contracting officer shall modify the contract or agreement awarded	under paragraph (a)(3) of this section to require SAM registration. (c) (c) Contracting	officers shall use the legal business name or "doing business as"	name and physical address from the contractor's SAM registration	for the provided unique entity identifier to identify the contractor	in section A of the contract schedule, similar sections of non-uniform	contract formats and agreements, and all corresponding forms and	data exchanges. Contracting officers shall make no changes to the	data retrieved from SAM. (d) (d)
Subpart 30.6 - CAS Administration No subsections found.
Subpart 19.11 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.311-1 Contract clause. No subsections found.
Subpart 12.2 - Special Requirements for the Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
19.403 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
8.003 Use of other mandatory sources. (a) (a) Public utility services (see part  41). (b) (b) Printing and related supplies (see subpart  8.8). (c) (c) Leased motor vehicles (see subpart  8.11). (d) (d) Strategic and critical materials (e.g., metals and ores) from inventories exceeding Defense National Stockpile requirements (detailed information is available from the DLA Strategic Materials, 8725 John J. Kingman Rd., Suite 3229, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060-6223).
42.1304 Government delay of work. (a) (a) The clause at 52.242-17, Government Delay of Work, provides for the administrative settlement of contractor claims that arise from delays and interruptions in the contract work caused by the acts, or failures to act, of the contracting officer. This clause is not applicable if the contract otherwise specifically provides for an equitable adjustment because of the delay or interruption; e.g., when the Changes clause is applicable. (b) (b) The clause does not authorize the contracting officer to order a suspension, delay, or interruption of the contract work and it shall not be used as the basis or justification of such an order. (c) (c) If the contracting officer has notice of an unordered delay or interruption covered by the clause, the contracting officer shall act to end the delay or take other appropriate action as soon as practicable. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall retain in the file a record of all negotiations leading to any adjustment made under the clause, and related certified cost or pricing data, or data other than certified cost or pricing data.
26.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
42.1303 Stop-work orders. (a) (a) Stop-work orders may be used, when appropriate, in any negotiated fixed-price or cost-reimbursement supply, research and development, or service contract if work stoppage may be required for reasons such as advancement in the state-of-the-art, production or engineering breakthroughs, or realignment of programs. (b) (b) Generally, a stop-work order will be issued only if it is advisable to suspend work pending a decision by the Government and a supplemental agreement providing for the suspension is not feasible. Issuance of a stop-work order shall be approved at a level higher than the contracting officer. Stop-work orders shall not be used in place of a termination notice after a decision to terminate has been made. (c) (c) Stop-work orders should include- (d) (d) Promptly after issuing the stop-work order, the contracting officer should discuss the stop-work order with the contractor and modify the order, if necessary, in light of the discussion. (e) (e) As soon as feasible after a stop-work order is issued, but before its expiration, the contracting officer shall take appropriate action to-
8.004 Use of other sources. (a) (a) (b) (b) Commercial sources (including educational and non-profit institutions) in the open market.
37.110 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.237-1, Site Visit, in solicitations for services to be performed on Government installations, unless the solicitation is for construction. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.237-2, Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation, in solicitations and contracts for services to be performed on Government installations, unless a construction contract is contemplated. (c) (c) The contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.237-3, Continuity of Services, in solicitations and contracts for services, when- (d) (d) See 9.508 regarding the use of an appropriate provision and clause concerning the subject of conflict-of-interest, which may at times be significant in solicitations and contracts for services. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall also insert in solicitations and contracts for services the provisions and clauses prescribed elsewhere in the FAR, as appropriate for each acquisition, depending on the conditions that are applicable.
4.2203 Contract clause. No subsections found.
11.402 Factors to consider in establishing schedules. (a) (a) Supplies or services. When establishing a contract delivery or performance schedule, consideration shall be given to applicable factors such as the- (b) (b) Construction. When scheduling the time for completion of a construction contract, the contracting officer shall consider applicable factors such as the-
36.208 Concurrent performance of firm-fixed-price and other types of construction contracts. No subsections found.
Subpart 12.5 - Applicability of Certain Laws to the Acquisition of Commercial Products, Commercial Services and Commercially Available Off-the-Shelf Items No subsections found.
52.215-18 Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions. (a) (a) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer in writing when the Contractor determines that it will terminate or reduce the benefits of a PRB plan. (b) (b) If PRB fund assets revert or inure to the Contractor, or are constructively received by it under a plan termination or otherwise, the Contractor shall make a refund or give a credit to the Government for its equitable share as required by 31.205-6(o)(5) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). When determining or agreeing on the method for recovery of the Government’s equitable share, the contracting parties should consider the following methods: cost reduction, amortizing the credit over a number of years (with appropriate interest), cash refund, or some other agreed upon method. Should the parties be unable to agree on the method for recovery of the Government’s equitable share, through good faith negotiations, the Contracting Officer shall designate the method of recovery. (c) (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause in all subcontracts that meet the applicability requirements of FAR 15.408(j).
Subchapter G - Contract Management No subsections found.
19.805-1 General. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an acquisition offered to the SBA under the 8(a) program shall be awarded on the basis of competition limited to eligible 8(a) participants when- (b) (b) Where an acquisition exceeds the competitive threshold (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section), the SBA may accept the requirement for a sole source 8(a) award if- (c) (c) A proposed 8(a) requirement with an estimated value exceeding the applicable competitive threshold amount shall not be divided into several requirements for lesser amounts in order to use 8(a) sole source procedures for award to a single firm. (d) (d) The SBA Associate Administrator for Business Development may approve a contracting office's request for a competitive 8(a) award below the competitive thresholds. Such requests will be approved only on a limited basis and will be primarily granted where technical competitions are appropriate or where a large number of responsible 8(a) participants are available for competition. In determining whether a request to compete below the threshold will be approved, the SBA Associate Administrator for Business Development will, in part, consider the extent to which the contracting activity is supporting the 8(a) program on a noncompetitive basis. The agency may include recommendations for competition below the threshold in the offering letter or by separate correspondence to the SBA Associate Administrator for Business Development.
Subpart 30.1 - General No subsections found.
4.1105 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.204-13, System for Award Management Maintenance, in solicitations that contain the provision at 52.204-7, and resulting contracts.
9.407-5 Scope of suspension. No subsections found.
42.203 Contract administration services directory. No subsections found.
Subpart 32.8 - Assignment of Claims No subsections found.
3.800 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.203-16 Preventing Personal	Conflicts of Interest. (a) (a) Definitions.	As used in this clause— (b) (b) Requirements.	The Contractor shall— (c) (c) Mitigation	or waiver. (d) (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include	the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts—
6.304 Approval of the justification. (a) (a) Except for paragraph (b) of this section, the justification for other than full and open competition shall be approved in writing- (b) (b) Any justification for a contract awarded under the authority of 6.302-7, regardless of dollar amount, shall be considered approved when the determination required by 6.302-7(c)(1) is made. (c) (c) A class justification for other than full and open competition shall be approved in writing in accordance with agency procedures. The approval level shall be determined by the estimated total value of the class. (d) (d) The estimated dollar value of all options shall be included in determining the approval level of a justification.
24.201 Authority. (a) (a) Publication in the Federal Register; (b) (b) Providing an opportunity to read and copy records at convenient locations; or (c) (c) Upon request, providing a copy of a reasonably described record.
36.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
28.106-5 Consent of surety. (a) (a) When any contract is modified, the contracting officer shall obtain the consent of surety if- (b) (b) When a contract for which performance or payment is secured by any of the types of security listed in 28.204 is modified as described in paragraph (a) of this subsection, no consent of surety is required. (c) (c) Agencies shall use Standard Form 1414, Consent of Surety, for all types of contracts.
52.222-8 Payrolls and Basic Records. (a) (a) Payrolls and basic records relating thereto shall be maintained by the Contractor during the course of the work and preserved for a period of 3 years thereafter for all laborers and mechanics working at the site of the work. Such records shall contain the name, address, and social security number of each such worker, his or her correct classification, hourly rates of wages paid (including rates of contributions or costs anticipated for bona fide fringe benefits or cash equivalents thereof of the types described in 40 U.S.C. 3141(2)(B) (Construction Wage Rate Requirement statute)), daily and weekly number of hours worked, deductions made, and actual wages paid. Whenever the Secretary of Labor has found, under paragraph (d) of the clause entitled Construction Wage Rate Requirements, that the wages of any laborer or mechanic include the amount of any costs reasonably anticipated in providing benefits under a plan or program described in 40 U.S.C. 3141(2)(B), the Contractor shall maintain records which show that the commitment to provide such benefits is enforceable, that the plan or program is financially responsible, and that the plan or program has been communicated in writing to the laborers or mechanics affected, and records which show the costs anticipated or the actual cost incurred in providing such benefits. Contractors employing apprentices or trainees under approved programs shall maintain written evidence of the registration of apprenticeship programs and certification of trainee programs, the registration of the apprentices and trainees, and the ratios and wage rates prescribed in the applicable programs. (b) (b) (c) (c) The Contractor or subcontractor shall make the records required under paragraph (a) of this clause available for inspection, copying, or transcription by the Contracting Officer or authorized representatives of the Contracting Officer or the Department of Labor. The Contractor or subcontractor shall permit the Contracting Officer or representatives of the Contracting Officer or the Department of Labor to interview employees during working hours on the job. If the Contractor or subcontractor fails to submit required records or to make them available, the Contracting Officer may, after written notice to the Contractor, take such action as may be necessary to cause the suspension of any further payment. Furthermore, failure to submit the required records upon request or to make such records available may be grounds for debarment action pursuant to 29 CFR 5.12.
46.704 Authority for use of warranties. No subsections found.
22.2103 Applicability. (a) (a) Contracts that- (b) (b) Employees performing on or in connection with such contracts whose wages are governed by the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, or the Fair Labor Standards Act, including employees who qualify for an exemption from the Fair Labor Standards Act's minimum wage and overtime provisions.
13.203 Purchase guidelines. (a) (a) Solicitation, evaluation of quotations, and award. (b) (b) Documentation. If competitive quotations were solicited and award was made to other than the low quoter, documentation to support the purchase may be limited to identification of the solicited concerns and an explanation for the award decision.
52.247-9 Agreed Weight-General Freight. No subsections found.
52.247-20 Estimated Quantities	or Weights for Evaluation of Offers. No subsections found.
Subpart 19.9 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
19.1506 Women-Owned Small Business Program sole-source awards. (a) (a) A contracting officer shall consider a contract award to an EDWOSB concern on a sole-source basis (see 6.302-5(b)(7)) before considering small business set-asides (see 19.203 and subpart  19.5) provided none of the exclusions at 19.1504 apply and- (b) (b) A contracting officer shall consider a contract award to a WOSB concern (including EDWOSB concerns) eligible under the WOSB Program on a sole-source basis (see 6.302-5(b)(7)) before considering small business set-asides (see 19.203 and subpart  19.5) provided none of the exclusions at 19.1504 apply and- (c) (c) (d) (d) A contracting officer shall only award a sole-source contract to a concern that has been certified pursuant to 13 CFR 127.300 as an EDWOSB or WOSB eligible under the WOSB program. Contracting officers shall not request a status determination from SBA on pending applications for certification for EDWOSB or WOSB sole-source awards. (e) (e) The SBA has the right to appeal the contracting officer’s decision not to make a sole-source award to either an EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB program.
32.1100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
7.402 Acquisition methods. (a) (a) Purchase method. (b) (b) Rent or lease method.
14.201-2 Part I—The Schedule. (a) (a) Section A, Solicitation/contract form. (b) (b) Section B, Supplies or services and prices. Include a brief description of the supplies or services; e.g., line item number, national stock number/part number if applicable, title or name identifying the supplies or services, and quantities (see part  11). The SF 33 and the SF 1447 may be supplemented as necessary by the OptionalForm336 (OF 336), Continuation Sheet. (c) (c) Section C, Description/specifications. Include any description or specifications needed in addition to Section B to permit full and open competition (see part  11). (d) (d) Section D, Packaging and marking. Provide packaging, packing, preservation, and marking requirements, if any. (e) (e) Section E, Inspection and acceptance. Include inspection, acceptance, quality assurance, and reliability requirements (see part  46, Quality Assurance). (f) (f) Section F, Deliveries or performance. Specify the requirements for time, place, and method of delivery or performance (see subpart  11.4, Delivery or Performance Schedules). (g) (g) Section G, Contract administration data. Include any required accounting and appropriation data and any required contract administration information or instructions other than those on the solicitation form. (h) (h) Section H, Special contract requirements. Include a clear statement of any special contract requirements that are not included in Section I, Contract clauses, or in other sections of the uniform contract format.
52.209-9 Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters. (a) (a) The Contractor shall update the information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) on a semi-annual basis, throughout the life of the contract, by posting the required information in the System for Award Management via https://www.sam.gov. (b) (b) As required by section 3010 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2010 (Pub. L. 111-212), all information posted in FAPIIS on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews, will be publicly available. FAPIIS consists of two segments- (c) (c) The Contractor will receive notification when the Government posts new information to the Contractor’s record. (d) (d) Public requests for system information posted prior to April 15, 2011, will be handled under Freedom of Information Act procedures, including, where appropriate, procedures promulgated under E.O. 12600.
Part 38 - Federal Supply Schedule Contracting No subsections found.
53.242 Contract administration. No subsections found.
12.505 Applicability of certain laws to contracts for the acquisition of COTS items. (a) (a) (b) (b) 42 U.S.C. 69 62(c)(3)(A), Certification and Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material. (c) (c) Compliance Plan and Certification Requirement, section 1703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239), Title XVII, Ending trafficking in Government Contracting (see 52.222-50(h) and 52.222-56).
52.221 [Reserved] No subsections found.
47.002 Applicability. (a) (a) Acquisition of supplies. (b) (b) Acquisition of transportation and transportation-related services. (c) (c) Transportation assistance and traffic management. (d) (d) Administration of transportation contracts, transportation-related services, and other contracts that involve transportation. (e) (e) The making and administration of contracts under which payments are made from Government funds for-
22.802 General. (a) (a) Executive Order 11246, as amended, sets forth the Equal Opportunity clause and requires that all agencies- (b) (b) No contract or modification involving new acquisition shall be entered into, and no subcontract shall be approved by a contracting officer, with a person who has been found ineligible by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for reasons of noncompliance with the requirements of E.O. 11246. (c) (c) No contracting officer or contractor shall contract for supplies or services in a manner so as to avoid applicability of the requirements of E.O. 11246. (d) (d) Contractor disputes related to compliance with its obligation shall be handled according to the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor (see 41 CFR60-1.1).
Subpart 44.2 - Consent to Subcontracts No subsections found.
32.501-2 Unusual progress payments. (a) (a) The contracting officer may provide unusual progress payments only if- (b) (b) The excess of the unusual progress payment rate approved over the customary progress payment rate should be the lowest amount possible under the circumstances. (c) (c) Progress payments will not be considered unusual merely because they are on letter contracts or the definitive contracts that supersede letter contracts.
22.404-3 Procedures for requesting wage determinations. (a) (a) General wage determinations. If there is a general wage determination on the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website applicable to the project, the agency may use it without notifying the Department of Labor. When necessary, a request for a general wage determination may be made by submitting Standard Form (SF) 308, Request for Determination and Response to Request, to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Attention: Branch of Construction Contract Wage Determinations, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20210. (b) (b) Project wage determinations. If a general wage determination is not available on Wage Determinations at SAM.gov, a contracting agency shall submit requests for project wage determinations on SF 308 to the Department of Labor. The requests shall include the following information: (c) (c) Time for submission of requests. (d) (d) Review of wage determinations. Immediately upon receipt, the contracting agency shall examine the wage determination and inform the Department of Labor of any changes necessary or appropriate to correct errors. Private parties requesting changes should be advised to submit their requests to the Department of Labor.
27.306 Licensing background patent rights to third parties. (a) (a) A contract with a small business concern or nonprofit organization shall not contain a provision allowing the Government to require the licensing to third parties of inventions owned by the contractor that are not subject inventions unless the agency head has approved and signed a written justification in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The agency head may not delegate this authority and may exercise the authority only if it is determined that the- (b) (b) Any determination will be on the record after an opportunity for a hearing, and the agency shall notify the contractor of the determination by certified or registered mail. The notification shall include a statement that the contractor must bring any action for judicial review of the determination within 60 days after the notification.
4.1800 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for identification of commercial and government entities. The Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code system may be used, among other things, to– (b) (b) For information on the unique entity identifier, which is a different identifier, see 4.605 and the provisions at 52.204-6, Unique Entity Identifier, and 52.204-7, System for Award Management.
1.704 Content. (a) (a) Identification of the agency and of the contracting activity and specific identification of the document as a "Determination and Findings." (b) (b) Nature and/or description of the action being approved. (c) (c) Citation of the appropriate statute and/or regulation upon which the D&F is based. (d) (d) Findings that detail the particular circumstances, facts, or reasoning essential to support the determination. Necessary supporting documentation shall be obtained from appropriate requirements and technical personnel. (e) (e) A determination, based on the findings, that the proposed action is justified under the applicable statute or regulation. (f) (f) Expiration date of the D&F, if required (see 1.706). (g) (g) The signature of the official authorized to sign the D&F (see 1.707) and the date signed.
45.603 Abandonment or destruction of personal property. (a) (a) When contractor inventory is processed through the reutilization screening process prescribed in 45.602-2 without success, and provided the property has no commercial value, does not require demilitarization, and does not constitute a danger to public health or welfare, plant clearance officers or other authorized officials may without further approval- (b) (b) Provided a Government reviewing official at least one level higher than the plant clearance officer or other agency authorized official approves, plant clearance officers or other agency authorized officials may authorize the abandonment, or order the destruction of other contractor inventory at the contractor’s or subcontractor’s premises, in accordance with FMR 102-36.305 through 325 (41 CFR 102-36.305-325) and consistent with the following: (c) (c) In lieu of abandonment or its authorized destruction, the plant clearance officer or authorized official may authorize the donation of property including unsold surplus property to public bodies, provided that the property is not sensitive property, does not require demilitarization, and it does not constitute a danger to public health or welfare. The Government will not bear any of the costs incident to such donations. (d) (d) Unless the property qualifies for one of the exceptions under FMR 102-36.330 (41 CFR 102-36.330), the plant clearance officer or requesting official will ensure prior public notice of such actions of abandonment or destruction consistent with FMR 102-36.325 (41 CFR 102-36.325).
9.702 Contracting with pools. (a) (a) Except as specified in this subpart, a pool shall be treated the same as any other prospective or actual contractor. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall not award a contract to a pool unless the offer leading to the contract is submitted by the pool in its own name or by an individual pool member expressly stating that the offer is on behalf of the pool. (c) (c) Upon receipt of an offer submitted by a group representing that it is a pool, the contracting officer shall verify its approved status with the SBA District Office Director or other approving agency and document the contract file that the verification was made. (d) (d) Pools approved by the SBA under the Small Business Act are entitled to the preferences and privileges accorded to small business concerns. Approval under the Defense Production Act does not confer these preferences and privileges. (e) (e) Before awarding a contract to an unincorporated pool, the contracting officer shall require each pool member participating in the contract to furnish a certified copy of a power of attorney identifying the agent authorized to sign the offer or contract on that member’s behalf. The contracting officer shall attach a copy of each power of attorney to each signed copy of the contract retained by the Government.
47.303-1 F.o.b. origin. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. origin" means free of expense to the Government delivered- (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-29, F.o.b. Origin, when the delivery term is f.o.b. origin.
Subpart 2.2 - Definitions Clause No subsections found.
52.229-4 Federal, State, and Local Taxes (State and Local Adjustments). (a) (a) As used in this clause- (b) (b) (c) (c) The contract price shall be increased by the amount of any after-imposed tax, or of any tax or duty specifically excluded from the contract price by a term or condition of this contract that the Contractor is required to pay or bear, including any interest or penalty, if the Contractor states in writing that the contract price does not include any contingency for such tax and if liability for such tax, interest, or penalty was not incurred through the Contractor’s fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer. (d) (d) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any after-relieved tax. The Government shall be entitled to interest received by the Contractor incident to a refund of taxes to the extent that such interest was earned after the Contractor was paid by the Government for such taxes. The Government shall be entitled to repayment of any penalty refunded to the Contractor to the extent that the penalty was paid by the Government. (e) (e) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any Federal, State, or local tax, other than an excepted tax, that was included in the contract price and that the Contractor is required to pay or bear, or does not obtain a refund of, through the Contractor’s fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer. (f) (f) No adjustment shall be made in the contract price under this clause unless the amount of the adjustment exceeds $250. (g) (g) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of all matters relating to Federal, State, and local taxes and duties that reasonably may be expected to result in either an increase or decrease in the contract price and shall take appropriate action as the Contracting Officer directs. The contract price shall be equitably adjusted to cover the costs of action taken by the Contractor at the direction of the Contracting Officer, including any interest, penalty, and reasonable attorneys’ fees. (h) (h) The Government shall furnish evidence appropriate to establish exemption from any Federal, State, or local tax when-
52.232-13 Notice of Progress	Payments. No subsections found.
5.203 Publicizing and response time. (a) (a) An agency must transmit a notice of proposed contract action to the GPE (see 5.201). All publicizing and response times are calculated based on the date of publication. The publication date is the date the notice appears on the GPE. The notice must be published at least 15 days before issuance of a solicitation, or a proposed contract action the Government intends to solicit and negotiate with only one source under the authority of 6.302, except that, for acquisitions of commercial products or commercial services, the contracting officer may- (b) (b) The contracting officer must establish a solicitation response time that will afford potential offerors a reasonable opportunity to respond to each proposed contract action, (including actions where the notice of proposed contract action and solicitation information is accessible through the GPE), in an amount estimated to be greater than $25,000, but not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold; or each contract action for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services in an amount estimated to be greater than $25,000. The contracting officer should consider the circumstances of the individual acquisition, such as the complexity, commerciality, availability, and urgency, when establishing the solicitation response time. (c) (c) Except for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services (see 5.203(b)), agencies shall allow at least a 30-day response time for receipt of bids or proposals from the date of issuance of a solicitation, if the proposed contract action is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (d) (d) Agencies shall allow at least a 30 day response time from the date of publication of a proper notice of intent to contract for architect-engineer services or before issuance of an order under a basic ordering agreement or similar arrangement if the proposed contract action is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (e) (e) Agencies must allow at least a 45-day response time for receipt of bids or proposals from the date of publication of the notice required in 5.201 for proposed contract actions categorized as research and development if the proposed contract action is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (f) (f) Nothing in this subpart prohibits officers or employees of agencies from responding to requests for information. (g) (g) Contracting officers may, unless they have evidence to the contrary, presume the notice was published oneday after transmission to the GPE. This presumption does not negate the mandatory waiting or response times specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. Upon learning that a particular notice has not in fact been published within the presumed timeframes, contracting officers should consider whether the date for receipt of offers can be extended or whether circumstances have become sufficiently compelling to justify proceeding with the proposed contract action under the authority of 5.202(a)(2). (h) (h) In addition to other requirements set forth in this section, for acquisitions covered by the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement or a Free Trade Agreement (see subpart  25.4), the period of time between publication of the synopsis notice and receipt of offers must be no less than 40 days. However, if the acquisition falls within a general category identified in an annual forecast, the availability of which is published, the contracting officer may reduce this time period to as few as 10 days.
49.302 Discontinuance of vouchers. (a) (a) When the contract has been completely terminated, the contractor shall not use Standard Form 1034 (Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other than Personal) after the last day of the sixth month following the month in which the termination is effective. The contractor may elect to stop using vouchers at any time during the 6-month period. When the contractor has vouchered out all costs within the 6-month period, a proposal for fee, if any, may be submitted on SF 1437  (see 49.602-1) or by letter appropriately certified. The contractor must submit a substantiated proposal for fee to the TCO within 1 year from the effective date of termination, unless the period is extended by the TCO. When the use of vouchers is discontinued, the contractor shall submit all unvouchered costs and the proposed fee, if any, as specified in 49.303. (b) (b) When the contract is partially terminated, 49.304 shall apply.
53.104 Overprinting. No subsections found.
44.305-3 Withholding or withdrawing approval. (a) (a) The ACO shall withhold or withdraw approval of a contractor’s purchasing system when there are major weaknesses or when the contractor is unable to provide sufficient information upon which to make an affirmative determination. The ACO may withdraw approval at any time on the basis of a determination that there has been a deterioration of the contractor’s purchasing system or to protect the Government’s interest. Approval shall be withheld or withdrawn when there is a recurring noncompliance with requirements, including but not limited to- (b) (b) When approval of the contractor’s purchasing system is withheld or withdrawn, the ACO shall within 10 days after completing the in-plant review (1) inform the contractor in writing, (2) specify the deficiencies that must be corrected to qualify the system for approval, and (3) request the contractor to furnish within 15 days a plan for accomplishing the necessary actions. If the plan is accepted, the ACO shall make a follow-up review as soon as the contractor notifies the ACO that the deficiencies have been corrected.
36.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.228-17 Individual Surety—Pledge of Assets (Bid Guarantee). (a) (a)Offerors shall obtain from each person acting as an individual surety on a bid guarantee— (b) (b)The Offeror shall include with its offer the information required at paragraph (a) of this provision within the timeframe specified in the provision at FAR 52.228-1, Bid Guarantee, or as otherwise established by the Contracting Officer. (c) (c)The Contracting Officer may release the security interest on the individual surety's assets in support of a bid guarantee based upon evidence that the offer supported by the individual surety will not result in contract award.
46.405 Subcontracts. (a) (a) Government contract quality assurance on subcontracted supplies or services shall be performed only when required in the Government’s interest. The primary purpose is to assist the contract administration office cognizant of the prime contractor’s plant in determining the conformance of subcontracted supplies or services with contract requirements or to satisfy one or more of the factors included in (b) of this section. It does not relieve the prime contractor of any responsibilities under the contract. When appropriate, the prime contractor shall be requested to arrange for timely Government access to the subcontractor facility. (b) (b) The Government shall perform quality assurance at the subcontract level when- (c) (c) Supplies or services for which certificates, records, reports, or similar evidence of quality are available at the prime contractor’s plant shall not be inspected at the subcontractor’s plant, except occasionally to verify this evidence or when required under (b) of this section. (d) (d) All oral and written statements and contract terms and conditions relating to Government quality assurance actions at the subcontract level shall be worded so as not to-
52.216-22 Indefinite Quantity. (a) (a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. (b) (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum." The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." (c) (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor’s and Government’s rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after _______________ [insert date].
13.102 Source list. (a) (a) Contracting officers should use the System for Award Management (see subpart 4.11) via https://www.sam.gov as their primary sources of vendor information. Offices maintaining additional vendor source files or listings should identify the status of each source (when the status is made known to the contracting office) in the following categories: (b) (b) The status information may be used as the basis to ensure that small business concerns are provided the maximum practicable opportunities to respond to solicitations issued using simplified acquisition procedures.
52.214-12 Preparation of Bids. (a) (a) Bidders are expected to examine the drawings, specifications, Schedule, and all instructions. Failure to do so will be at the bidder’s risk. (b) (b) Each bidder shall furnish the information required by the solicitation. The bidder shall sign the bid and print or type its name on the Schedule and each continuation sheet on which it makes an entry. Erasures or other changes must be initialed by the person signing the bid. Bids signed by an agent shall be accompanied by evidence of that agent’s authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office. (c) (c) For each item offered, bidders shall (1) show the unit price, including, unless otherwise specified, packaging, packing, and preservation and (2) enter the extended price for the quantity of each item offered in the "Amount" column of the Schedule. In case of discrepancy between a unit price and an extended price, the unit price will be presumed to be correct, subject, however, to correction to the same extent and in the same manner as any other mistake. (d) (d) Bids for supplies or services other than those specified will not be considered unless authorized by the solicitation. (e) (e) Bidders must state a definite time for delivery of supplies or for performance of services, unless otherwise specified in the solicitation. (f) (f) Time, if stated as a number of days, will include Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
32.607 Installment payments and deferment of collection. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall not approve or deny a contractor’s request for installment payments or deferment of collections. The office designated in agency procedures is responsible for approving or denying requests for installment payments or deferment of collections. (b) (b) If a contractor has not appealed the debt or filed an action under the Disputes clause of the contract and the contractor has submitted a proposal for debt deferment or installment payments- (c) (c) If not already applicable under the contract terms, interest on contract debt shall be made an element of any agreement entered into for installment payments or deferment of collection.
42.102 Assignment of contract audit services. (a) (a) As provided in agency procedures or interagency agreements, contracting officers may request audit services directly from the responsible audit agency cited in the Directory of Federal Contract Audit Offices. The audit request should include a suspense date and should identify any information needed by the contracting officer. (b) (b) The responsible audit agency may decline requests for services on a case-by-case basis, if resources of the audit agency are inadequate to accomplish the tasks. Declinations shall be in writing.
3.908 [Reserved] No subsections found.
47.207-6 Rates and charges. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall include in the solicitation a tabulation listing each required service and the basis for the rate (price); e.g.,"unit of weight" or "per work-hour," leaving sufficient space for offerors to insert the rates offered for each service. (c) (c) The following guidelines apply to the composition of a tabulation of transportation or of transportation-related services and their rate (price) bases:
38.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
Subpart 22.2 - Convict Labor No subsections found.
4.604 Responsibilities. (a) (a) The Senior Procurement Executive in coordination with the head of the contracting activity is responsible for developing and monitoring a process to ensure timely and accurate reporting of contractual actions to FPDS. (b) (b) (c) (c) The chief acquisition officer of each agency required to report its contract actions must submit to the General Services Administration (GSA), in accordance with FPDS guidance, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, an annual certification of whether, and to what degree, agency CAR data for the preceding fiscal year is complete and accurate.
49.108-3 Settlement procedure. (a) (a) Contractors shall settle with subcontractors in general conformity with the policies and principles relating to settlement of prime contracts in this subpart and subparts  49.2 or 49.3. However, the basis and form of the subcontractor’s settlement proposal must be acceptable to the prime contractor or the next higher tier subcontractor. Each settlement must be supported by accounting data and other information sufficient for adequate review by the Government. In no event will the Government pay the prime contractor any amount for loss of anticipatory profits or consequential damages resulting from the termination of any subcontract (but see 49.108-5). (b) (b) Except as provided in 49.108-4, the TCO shall require that- (c) (c) The TCO shall promptly examine each subcontract settlement received to determine that the subcontract termination was made necessary by the termination of the prime contract (or by issuance of a change order-see 49.002(b)). The TCO will also determine if the settlement was arrived at in good faith, is reasonable in amount, and is allocable to the terminated portion of the contract (or, if allocable only in part, that the proposed allocation is reasonable). In considering the reasonableness of any subcontract settlement, the TCO shall generally be guided by the provisions of this part relating to the settlement of prime contracts, and shall comply with any applicable requirements of 49.107 and 49.111 relating to accounting and other reviews. After the examination, the TCO shall notify the contractor in writing of-
15.204 Contract format. (a) (a) Construction and architect-engineer contracts (see part  36). (b) (b) Subsistence contracts. (c) (c) Supplies or services contracts requiring special contract formats prescribed elsewhere in this regulation that are inconsistent with the uniform format. (d) (d) Letter requests for proposals (see 15.203(e)). (e) (e) Contracts exempted by the agency head or designee.
Subpart 8.6 - Acquisition from Federal Prison Industries, Inc. No subsections found.
19.705 Responsibilities of the contracting officer under the subcontracting assistance program. No subsections found.
44.204 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.244-4, Subcontractors and Outside Associates and Consultants (Architect-Engineer Services), in architect-engineer contracts. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert the clause at 52.244-5, Competition in Subcontracting, in solicitations and contracts when the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, unless-
52.232-2 Payments under Fixed-Price Research and Development Contracts. No subsections found.
Subpart 11.4 - Delivery or Performance Schedules No subsections found.
11.703 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.211-16, Variation in Quantity, in solicitations and contracts, if authorizing a variation in quantity in fixed-price contracts for supplies or for services that involve the furnishing of supplies. (b) (b) The contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.211-17, Delivery of Excess Quantities, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price supply contract is contemplated. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.211-18, Variation in Estimated Quantity, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction contract is contemplated that authorizes a variation in the estimated quantity of unit-priced items.
4.2102 Prohibition. (a) (a) Prohibited equipment, systems, or services. (b) (b) Exceptions. This subpart does not prohibit agencies from procuring or contractors from providing- (c) (c) Contracting Officers. Unless an exception at paragraph (b) of this section applies or the covered telecommunications equipment or service is covered by a waiver described in 4.2104, Contracting Officers shall not— (d) (d) Recording prohibitions in the System for Award Management (SAM).
23.500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
32.1008 Suspension or reduction of performance-based payments. No subsections found.
Subpart 1.3 - Agency Acquisition Regulations No subsections found.
14.502 Conditions for use. (a) (a) Unless other factors require the use of sealed bidding, two-step sealed bidding may be used in preference to negotiation when all of the following conditions are present: (b) (b) None of the following precludes the use of two-step sealed bidding:
5.102 Availability of solicitations. (a) (a) (b) (b) When the contracting officer does not make a solicitation available through the GPE pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the contracting officer- (c) (c) In addition to the methods of disseminating proposed contract information in 5.101(a) and (b), provide, upon request to small business concerns, as required by 15 U.S.C. 637(b)- (d) (d) When electronic commerce (see subpart  4.5) is used in the solicitation process, availability of the solicitation may be limited to the electronic medium. (e) (e) Provide copies of a solicitation issued under other than full and open competition to firms requesting copies that were not initially solicited, but only after advising the requester of the determination to limit the solicitation to a specified firm or firms as authorized under part  6. (f) (f) This section 5.102 applies to classified contracts to the extent consistent with agency security requirements (see 5.202(a)(1)).
Subpart 18.1 - Available Acquisition Flexibilities No subsections found.
52.246-1 Contractor Inspection Requirements. No subsections found.
53.205 Publicizing contract actions. No subsections found.
Subpart 47.3 - Transportation in Supply Contracts No subsections found.
52.219-3 Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award. (a) (a) Definitions. HUBZone small business concern, as used in this clause, means a small business concern, certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA), that appears on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the SBA (13 CFR 126.103). (b) (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to- (c) (c) General. (d) (d) Joint venture. A joint venture may be considered a HUBZone concern if— (e) (e) A HUBZone joint venture agrees that, in the performance of the contract, at least 40 percent of the aggregate work performed by the joint venture shall be completed by the HUBZone small business parties to the joint venture. Work performed by the HUBZone small business party or parties to the joint venture must be more than administrative functions.
32.502-3 Solicitation provisions. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.232-13, Notice of Progress Payments, in invitations for bids and requests for proposals that include a Progress Payments clause. (b) (b) (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.232-15, Progress Payments Not Included, in invitations for bids if the solicitation will not contain one of the provisions prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
28.204-3 Irrevocable letter of credit. (a) (a) Any person required to furnish a bond has the option to furnish a bond secured by an irrevocable letter of credit (ILC) in an amount equal to the penal sum required to be secured (see 28.204). A separate ILC is required for each bond. (b) (b) The ILC shall be irrevocable, require presentation of no document other than a written demand and the ILC (and letter of confirmation, if any), expire only as provided in paragraph (f) of this subsection, and be issued/confirmed by an acceptable federally insured financial institution as provided in paragraph (g) of this subsection. (c) (c) To draw on the ILC, the contracting officer shall use the sight draft set forth in the clause at 52.228-14, and present it with the ILC (including letter of confirmation, if any) to the issuing financial institution or the confirming financial institution (if any). (d) (d) If the contractor does not furnish an acceptable replacement ILC, or other acceptable substitute, at least 30 days before an ILC’s scheduled expiration, the contracting officer shall immediately draw on the ILC. (e) (e) If, after the period of performance of a contract where ILCs are used to support payment bonds, there are outstanding claims against the payment bond, the contracting officer shall draw on the ILC prior to the expiration date of the ILC to cover these claims. (f) (f) The period for which financial security is required shall be as follows: (g) (g) Only federally insured financial institutions rated investment grade shall issue or confirm the ILC. Unless the financial institution issuing the ILC had letter of credit business of at least $25 million in the past year, ILCs over $5 million must be confirmed by another acceptable financial institution that had letter of credit business of at least $25 million in the past year. (h) (h) A copy of the Uniform Customs and Practice (UCP) for Documentary Credits, 2007 Edition, International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 600, is available from:
52.225-17 Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers. (a) (a) For acquisitions conducted using sealed bidding procedures, on the date of bid opening. (b) (b) For acquisitions conducted using negotiation procedures-
52.247-67 Submission of Transportation Documents for Audit. (a) (a) The Contractor shall submit to the address identified below, for prepayment audit, transportation documents on which the United States will assume freight charges that were paid- (b) (b) Cost-reimbursement Contractors shall only submit for audit those bills of lading with freight shipment charges exceeding $100. Bills under $100 shall be retained on-site by the Contractor and made available for on-site audits. This exception only applies to freight shipment bills and is not intended to apply to bills and invoices for any other transportation services. (c) (c) Contractors shall submit the above referenced transportation documents to-
1.405 Deviations pertaining to treaties and executive agreements. (a) (a) "Executive agreements," as used in this section, means Government-to-Government agreements, including agreements with international organizations, to which the United States is a party. (b) (b) Any deviation from the FAR required to comply with a treaty to which the United States is a party is authorized, unless the deviation would be inconsistent with FAR coverage based on a law enacted after the execution of the treaty. (c) (c) Any deviation from the FAR required to comply with an executive agreement is authorized unless the deviation would be inconsistent with FAR coverage based on law. (d) (d) For civilian agencies other than NASA, a copy of the text deviation authorized under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be transmitted to the FAR Secretariat through a central agency control point. (e) (e) For civilian agencies other than NASA, if a deviation required to comply with a treaty or an executive agreement is not authorized by paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, then the request for deviation shall be processed through the FAR Secretariat to the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council.
9.403 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.219-12 Special 8(a) Subcontract Conditions. (a) (a) The Small Business Administration (SBA) has entered into Contract No.________ [insert number of contract] with the _________ [insert name of contracting agency] to furnish the supplies or services as described therein. A copy of the contract is attached hereto and made a part hereof. (b) (b) The ___________ [insert name of subcontractor], hereafter referred to as the subcontractor, agrees and acknowledges as follows: (c) (c) Payments, including any progress payments under this subcontract, will be made directly to the subcontractor by the ______ [insert name of contracting agency].
31.205-31 Plant reconversion costs. No subsections found.
45.502 Subcontractor and alternate prime contractor locations. (a) (a) To ensure subcontractor compliance with Government property administration requirements, and with prime contractor consent, the property administrator assigned to the prime contract may request support property administration from another contract administration office. If the prime contractor does not provide consent to support property administration at subcontractor locations, the property administrator shall refer the matter to the contracting officer for resolution. (b) (b) The prime property administrator shall accept the findings of the delegated support property administrator and advise the prime contractor of the results of property management reviews, including deficiencies found with the subcontractor’s property management system. (c) (c) Prime contractor consent is not required for support delegations involving prime contractor alternate locations.
52.208-1 [Reserved] No subsections found.
36.517 Layout of work. No subsections found.
25.301-1 Scope. (a) (a) This section applies to contracts	requiring contractor personnel to perform outside the United States- (b) (b) Any of	the types of operations listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section	may include stability operations such as- (c) (c) This section	does not apply to personal services contracts (see FAR 37.104), unless specified	otherwise in agency procedures.
52.222-37 Employment Reports	on Veterans. (a) (a) Definitions. As	used in this clause, "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran,"	"Armed Forces service medal veteran," "disabled veteran," "protected	veteran," and "recently separated veteran," have the meanings given	in Federal Acquisition Regulation	(FAR)22.1301. (b) (b) Unless the	Contractor is a State or local government agency, the Contractor	shall report at least annually, as required by the Secretary of	Labor, on- (c) (c) The Contractor	shall report the above items by filing the VETS-4212 "Federal Contractor	Veterans’ Employment Report" (see "VETS-4212 Federal Contractor	Reporting" and "Filing Your VETS-4212 Report" at http://www.dol.gov/vets/vets4212.htm). (d) (d) The Contractor	shall submit VETS-4212 Reports no later than September 30 of each	year. (e) (e) The employment	activity report required by paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this	clause shall reflect total new hires, and maximum and minimum number	of employees, during the most recent 12–month period preceding the	ending date selected for the report. Contractors may select an ending	date- (f) (f) The number	of veterans reported must be based on data known to the contractor	when completing the VETS-4212. The contractor’s knowledge of veterans	status may be obtained in a variety of ways, including an invitation	to applicants to self-identify (in accordance with 41 CFR 60-300.42), voluntary self-disclosure	by employees, or actual knowledge of veteran status by the contractor.	This paragraph does not relieve an employer of liability for discrimination	under 38 U.S.C. 4212. (g) (g) The Contractor	shall insert the terms of this clause in subcontracts valued at or above the threshold	specified in FAR 22.1303(a) on the date	of subcontract award, unless exempted by rules, regulations,	or orders of the Secretary of Labor.
52.246-17 Warranty of Supplies of a Noncomplex Nature. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Contractor’s obligations. (c) (c) Remedies available to the Government.
25.606 Postaward determinations. (a) (a) If a contractor requests a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute after contract award, the contractor must explain why it could not request the determination before contract award or why the need for such determination otherwise was not reasonably foreseeable. If the contracting officer concludes that the contractor should have made the request before contract award, the contracting officer may deny the request. (b) (b) The contracting officer must base evaluation of any request for a determination regarding the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute made after contract award on information required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of the applicable clause at 52.225-21 or 52.225-23 and/or other readily available information. (c) (c) If a determination, under 25.603(a), is made after contract award that an exception to section 1605 of the Recovery Act or to the Buy American statute applies, the contracting officer must negotiate adequate consideration and modify the contract to allow use of the foreign construction material. When the basis for the exception is the unreasonable cost of a domestic construction material, adequate consideration is at least the differential established in 25.605(a).
3.204 Treatment of violations. (a) (a) Before taking any action against a contractor, the agency head or a designee shall determine, after notice and hearing under agency procedures, whether the contractor, its agent, or another representative, under a contract containing the Gratuities clause- (b) (b) Agency procedures shall afford the contractor an opportunity to appear with counsel, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any person the agency presents. The procedures should be as informal as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness. (c) (c) When the agency head or designee determines that a violation has occurred, the Government may-
22.1801 Definitions. No subsections found.
53.238 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Part 42 - Contract Administration and Audit Services No subsections found.
47.303 Standard delivery terms and contract clauses. No subsections found.
33.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
16.303 Cost-sharing contracts. (a) (a) Description. A cost-sharing contract is a cost-reimbursement contract in which the contractor receives no fee and is reimbursed only for an agreed-upon portion of its allowable costs. (b) (b) Application. A cost-sharing contract may be used when the contractor agrees to absorb a portion of the costs, in the expectation of substantial compensating benefits. (c) (c) Limitations. See 16.301-3.
14.202-3 Bid envelopes. (a) (a) Postage or envelopes bearing "Postage and Fees Paid" indicia shall not be distributed with the invitation for bids or otherwise supplied to prospective bidders. (b) (b) To provide for ready identification and proper handling of bids, Optional Form 17, Offer Label, may be furnished with each bid set. The form may be obtained from the General Services Administration (see 53.107).
19.302 Protesting a small business representation or rerepresentation. (a) (a) (b) (b) Any time after offers are received by the contracting officer, or in the case of bids, opened, the contracting officer may question the small business representation of any offeror in a specific offer by filing a contracting officer's protest (see paragraph (c) of this section). (c) (c) (d) (d) In order to affect a specific solicitation, a protest must be timely. SBA's regulations on timeliness are contained in 13 CFR 121.1004. SBA's regulations on timeliness related to protests of disadvantaged status are contained in 13 CFR part 124, subpart B. (e) (e) Upon receipt of a protest from or forwarded by the Contracting Office, the SBA will- (f) (f) (g) (g) (h) (h) An appeal from an SBA size determination may be filed by any concern or other interested party whose protest of the small business representation of another concern has been denied by an SBA Government Contracting Area Director, any concern or other interested party that has been adversely affected by an SBA Government Contracting Area Director’s decision, or the SBA Associate Administrator for the SBA program involved. The appeal must be filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals, Small Business Administration, Suite 5900, 409 3 rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, within the time limits and in strict accordance with the procedures contained in Subpart C of 13 CFR 134. It is within the discretion of the SBA Judge whether to accept an appeal from a size determination. If a post-award appeal is submitted to OHA within the time limits specified in Subpart C of 13 CFR 134, the contracting officer shall consider suspending contract performance until an SBA Judge decides the appeal. SBA will inform the contracting officer of its ruling on the appeal. SBA’s decision, if received before award, will apply to the pending acquisition. If the contracting officer has made a written determination in accordance with (g)(1) or (2) of this section, the contract has been awarded, the SBA rulings is received after award, and OHA finds the protested concern to be ineligible for award, the contracting officer shall terminate the contract unless termination is not in the best interests of the Government, in keeping with the circumstances described in the written determination. However, the contracting officer shall not exercise any options or award further task or delivery orders. (i) (i) SBA will dismiss untimely protests. A protest that is not timely, even though received before award, shall be forwarded to the SBA Government Contracting Area Office (see paragraph (c)(1) of this section), with a notation on it that the protest is not timely. A protest received by a contracting officer after award of a contract shall be forwarded to the SBA Government Contracting Area Office with a notation that award has been made. (j) (j) When a concern is found to be other than small under a protest concerning a size status rerepresentation made in accordance with the clause at 52.219-28, Postaward Small Business Program Rerepresentation, a contracting officer may permit contract performance to continue, issue orders, or exercise option(s), because the contract remains a valid contract.
8.702 General. (a) (a) Determining those supplies and services to be purchased by all entities of the Government from AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies; (b) (b) Establishing prices for the supplies and services; and (c) (c) Establishing rules and regulations to implement 41 U.S.C. chapter 85.
52.236-5 Material and Workmanship. (a) (a) All equipment, material, and articles incorporated into the work covered by this contract shall be new and of the most suitable grade for the purpose intended, unless otherwise specifically provided in this contract. References in the specifications to equipment, material, articles, or patented processes by trade name, make, or catalog number, shall be regarded as establishing a standard of quality and shall not be construed as limiting competition. The Contractor may, at its option, use any equipment, material, article, or process that, in the judgment of the Contracting Officer, is equal to that named in the specifications, unless otherwise specifically provided in this contract. (b) (b) The Contractor shall obtain the Contracting Officer’s approval of the machinery and mechanical and other equipment to be incorporated into the work. When requesting approval, the Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer the name of the manufacturer, the model number, and other information concerning the performance, capacity, nature, and rating of the machinery and mechanical and other equipment. When required by this contract or by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall also obtain the Contracting Officer’s approval of the material or articles which the Contractor contemplates incorporating into the work. When requesting approval, the Contractor shall provide full information concerning the material or articles. When directed to do so, the Contractor shall submit samples for approval at the Contractor’s expense, with all shipping charges prepaid. Machinery, equipment, material, and articles that do not have the required approval shall be installed or used at the risk of subsequent rejection. (c) (c) All work under this contract shall be performed in a skillful and workmanlike manner. The Contracting Officer may require, in writing, that the Contractor remove from the work any employee the Contracting Officer deems incompetent, careless, or otherwise objectionable.
Subpart 15.3 - Source Selection No subsections found.
42.705-5 Nonprofit organizations other than educational and state and local governments. No subsections found.
31.205-28 Other business expenses. (a) (a) Registry and transfer charges resulting from changes in ownership of securities issued by the contractor. (b) (b) Cost of shareholders’ meetings. (c) (c) Normal proxy solicitations. (d) (d) Preparing and publishing reports to shareholders. (e) (e) Preparing and submitting required reports and forms to taxing and other regulatory bodies. (f) (f) Incidental costs of directors’ and committee meetings. (g) (g) Other similar costs.
28.307-2 Liability. (a) (a) Workers’ compensation and employer’s liability. Contractors are required to comply with applicable Federal and State workers’ compensation and occupational disease statutes. If occupational diseases are not compensable under those statutes, they shall be covered under the employer’s liability section of the insurance policy, except when contract operations are so commingled with a contractor’s commercial operations that it would not be practical to require this coverage. Employer’s liability coverage of at least $100,000 shall be required, except in States with exclusive or monopolistic funds that do not permit workers’ compensation to be written by private carriers. (See 28.305(c) for treatment of contracts subject to the Defense Base Act.) (b) (b) General liability. (c) (c) Automobile liability. The contracting officer shall require automobile liability insurance written on the comprehensive form of policy. The policy shall provide for bodily injury and property damage liability covering the operation of all automobiles used in connection with performing the contract. Policies covering automobiles operated in the United States shall provide coverage of at least $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and $20,000 per occurrence for property damage. The amount of liability coverage on other policies shall be commensurate with any legal requirements of the locality and sufficient to meet normal and customary claims. (d) (d) Aircraft public and passenger liability. When aircraft are used in connection with performing the contract, the contracting officer shall require aircraft public and passenger liability insurance. Coverage shall be at least $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, other than passenger liability, and $200,000 per occurrence for property damage. Coverage for passenger liability bodily injury shall be at least $200,000 multiplied by the number of seats or passengers, whichever is greater. (e) (e) Vessel liability. When contract performance involves use of vessels, the contracting officer shall require, as determined by the agency, vessel collision liability and protection and indemnity liability insurance.
22.1009-4 All possible places of performance not identified. (a) (a) Include the following information in the synopsis and solicitation: (b) (b) Include the information required by paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(4) of this section in the clause at 52.222-49, Service Contract Labor Standards–Place of Performance Unknown (see 22.1006(f)). The closing date for receipt of offerors’ requests for wage determinations for additional possible places of performance should allow reasonable time for potential offerors to review the solicitation and determine their interest in competing. Generally, 10 to 15 days from the date of issuance of the solicitation may be considered a reasonable period of time. (c) (c) The procedures in 14.304 shall apply to late receipt of offerors’ requests for wage determinations for additional places of performance. However, late receipt of an offeror’s request for a wage determination for additional places of performance does not preclude the offeror’s competing for the proposed acquisition. (d) (d) If the contracting officer receives any timely requests for wage determinations for additional places of performance the contracting officer shall- (e) (e) If the successful offeror did not make a timely request for a wage determination and will perform in a place of performance for which the contracting officer therefore did not request a wage determination, the contracting officer shall-
52.227-7 Patents-Notice of Government Licensee. No subsections found.
52.104 Procedures for modifying and completing provisions and clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer must not modify provisions and clauses unless the FAR authorizes their modification. For example- (b) (b) When modifying provisions or clauses incorporated by reference, insert the changed wording directly below the title of the provision or clause identifying to the lowest level necessary (e.g., paragraph, sentence, word), to clearly indicate what is being modified. (c) (c) When modifying provisions or clauses incorporated in full text, modify the language directly by substituting the changed wording as permitted. (d) (d) When completing blanks in provisions or clauses incorporated by reference, insert the fill-in information directly below the title of the provision or clause identifying to the lowest level necessary to clearly indicate the blanks being filled in. (e) (e) When completing blanks in provisions or clauses incorporated in full text, insert the fill-in information in the blanks of the provision or clause.
Subpart 26.5 - Drug-Free Workplace No subsections found.
4.1603 Procedures. (a) (a) Elements of a PIID. The	PIID consists of a combination of thirteen to seventeen alpha and/or	numeric characters sequenced to convey certain information. Do not	use special characters (such as hyphens, dashes, or spaces). (b) (b) Elements	of a supplementary PIID. Use the supplementary PIID to identify	amendments to solicitations and modifications to contracts, orders,	and agreements. The supplementary PIID is reported as a separate	data element used in conjunction with, but not appended to, the	PIID.
4.203 Taxpayer identification information. (a) (a) If the contractor has furnished a Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) when completing the solicitation provision at 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification, or paragraph (l) of the solicitation provision at 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, the contracting officer shall, unless otherwise provided in agency procedures, attach a copy of the completed solicitation provision as the last page of the copy of the contract sent to the payment office. (b) (b) If the TIN or type of organization is derived from a source other than the provision at 52.204-3 or 52.212-3(l), the contracting officer shall annotate the last page of the contract or order forwarded to the payment office to state the contractor’s TIN and type of organization, unless this information is otherwise provided to the payment office in accordance with agency procedures. (c) (c) If the contractor provides its TIN or type of organization to the contracting officer after award, the contracting officer shall forward the information to the payment office within 7 days of its receipt. (d) (d) Federal Supply Schedule contracts. Each contracting officer that places an order under a Federal Supply Schedule contract (see subpart  8.4) shall provide the TIN and type of organization information to the payment office in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. (e) (e) Basic ordering agreements and indefinite-delivery contracts (other than Federal Supply Schedule contracts).
22.404-11 Wage determination appeals. No subsections found.
15.603 General. (a) (a) Unsolicited proposals allow unique and innovative ideas or approaches that have been developed outside the Government to be made available to Government agencies for use in accomplishment of their missions. Unsolicited proposals are offered with the intent that the Government will enter into a contract with the offeror for research and development or other efforts supporting the Government mission, and often represent a substantial investment of time and effort by the offeror. (b) (b) Advertising material, commercial product or commercial service offers, or contributions, as defined in 15.601, or routine correspondence on technical issues, are not unsolicited proposals. (c) (c) A valid unsolicited proposal must- (d) (d) Unsolicited proposals in response to a publicized general statement of agency needs are considered to be independently originated. (e) (e) Agencies must evaluate unsolicited proposals for energy savings performance contracts in accordance with the procedures in 10 CFR436.33(b).
32.009 Providing accelerated payments to small business contractors and to prime contractors that subcontract with a small business concern. No subsections found.
22.601 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.101-4 Removal of items from contractors’ facilities affected by work stoppages. (a) (a) Items shall be removed from contractors’ facilities affected by work stoppages in accordance with agency procedures. Agency procedures should allow for the following: (b) (b) Avoid the use or appearance of force and prevent incidents that might detrimentally affect labor-management relations. (c) (c) When two or more agencies’ requirements are or may become involved in the removal of items, the contract administration office shall ensure that the necessary coordination is accomplished.
52.222-13 Compliance with Construction Wage Rate Requirements and Related Regulations. No subsections found.
3.1106 Contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.203-16, Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest, in solicitations and contracts that- (b) (b) If only a portion of a contract is for the performance of acquisition functions closely associated with inherently governmental functions, then the contracting officer shall still insert the clause, but shall limit applicability of the clause to that portion of the contract that is for the performance of such services. (c) (c) Do not insert the clause in solicitations or contracts with a self-employed individual if the acquisition functions closely associated with inherently governmental functions are to be performed entirely by the self-employed individual, rather than an employee of the contractor.
52.214-1 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.236-10 Operations and Storage Areas. (a) (a) The Contractor shall confine all operations (including storage of materials) on Government premises to areas authorized or approved by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall hold and save the Government, its officers and agents, free and harmless from liability of any nature occasioned by the Contractor’s performance. (b) (b) Temporary buildings (e.g., storage sheds, shops, offices) and utilities may be erected by the Contractor only with the approval of the Contracting Officer and shall be built with labor and materials furnished by the Contractor without expense to the Government. The temporary buildings and utilities shall remain the property of the Contractor and shall be removed by the Contractor at its expense upon completion of the work. With the written consent of the Contracting Officer, the buildings and utilities may be abandoned and need not be removed. (c) (c) The Contractor shall, under regulations prescribed by the Contracting Officer, use only established roadways, or use temporary roadways constructed by the Contractor when and as authorized by the Contracting Officer. When materials are transported in prosecuting the work, vehicles shall not be loaded beyond the loading capacity recommended by the manufacturer of the vehicle or prescribed by any Federal, State, or local law or regulation. When it is necessary to cross curbs or sidewalks, the Contractor shall protect them from damage. The Contractor shall repair or pay for the repair of any damaged curbs, sidewalks, or roads.
49.603-8 Fixed-price contracts-settlements with subcontractors only. No subsections found.
22.1503 Procedures for acquiring end products on the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor. (a) (a) When issuing a solicitation for supplies expected to exceed the micro-purchase threshold, the contracting officer must check the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor (the List) ( www.dol.gov/ilab/) (see 22.1505(a)). Appearance of a product on the List is not a bar to purchase of any such product mined, produced, or manufactured in the identified country, but rather is an alert that there is a reasonable basis to believe that such product may have been mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor. (b) (b) The requirements of this subpart that result from the appearance of any end product on the List do not apply to a solicitation or contract if the identified country of origin on the List is- (c) (c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, before the contracting officer may make an award for an end product (regardless of country of origin) of a type identified by country of origin on the List the offeror must certify that- (d) (d) Absent any actual knowledge that the certification is false, the contracting officer must rely on the offerors’ certifications in making award decisions. (e) (e) Whenever a contracting officer has reason to believe that forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture an end product furnished pursuant to a contract awarded subject to the certification required in paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer must refer the matter for investigation by the agency’s Inspector General, the Attorney General, or the Secretary of the Treasury, whichever is determined appropriate in accordance with agency procedures, except to the extent that the end product is from the country listed in paragraph (b) of this section, under a contract exceeding the applicable threshold. (f) (f) Proper certification will not prevent the head of an agency from imposing remedies in accordance with section 22.1504(a)(4) if it is later discovered that the contractor has furnished an end product or component that has in fact been mined, produced, or manufactured, wholly or in part, using forced or indentured child labor.
52.247-43 F.o.b. Designated Air Carrier’s Terminal, Point of Exportation. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of exportation," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government loaded aboard the aircraft, or delivered to the custody of the air carrier (if only the air carrier performs the loading), at the air carrier’s terminal specified in the contract. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
49.601-1 Electronic notice. (a) (a) Complete termination: The following electronic notice is suggested for use if a supply contract is being completely terminated for convenience. If appropriately modified, the notice may be used for other than supply contracts. (b) (b) Partial termination:The following electronic notice is suggested for use if a supply contract is being partially terminated for convenience. If appropriately modified, the notice may be used for other than supply contracts.
42.505 Postaward subcontractor conferences. (a) (a) The prime contractor is generally responsible for conducting postaward conferences with subcontractors. However, the prime contractor may invite Government representatives to a conference with subcontractors, or the Government may request that the prime contractor initiate a conference with subcontractors. The prime contractor should ensure that representatives from involved contract administration offices are invited. (b) (b) Government representatives-
52.216-8 Fixed Fee. (a) (a) The Government shall pay the Contractor for performing this contract the fixed fee specified in the Schedule. (b) (b) Payment of the fixed fee shall be made as specified in the Schedule; provided that the Contracting Officer withholds a reserve not to exceed 15 percent of the total fixed fee or $100,000, whichever is less, to protect the Government’s interest. The Contracting Officer shall release 75 percent of all fee withholds under this contract after receipt of an adequate certified final indirect cost rate proposal covering the year of physical completion of this contract, provided the Contractor has satisfied all other contract terms and conditions, including the submission of the final patent and royalty reports, and is not delinquent in submitting final vouchers on prior years’ settlements. The Contracting Officer may release up to 90 percent of the fee withholds under this contract based on the Contractor’s past performance related to the submission and settlement of final indirect cost rate proposals.
31.205-15 Fines, penalties, and mischarging costs. (a) (a) Costs of fines and penalties resulting from violations of, or failure of the contractor to comply with, Federal, State, local, or foreign laws and regulations, are unallowable except when incurred as a result of compliance with specific terms and conditions of the contract or written instructions from the contracting officer. (b) (b) Costs incurred in connection with, or related to, the mischarging of costs on Government contracts are unallowable when the costs are caused by, or result from, alteration or destruction of records, or other false or improper charging or recording of costs. Such costs include those incurred to measure or otherwise determine the magnitude of the improper charging, and costs incurred to remedy or correct the mischarging, such as costs to rescreen and reconstruct records.
32.202-4 Security for Government financing. (a) (a) Policy. (b) (b) Paramount lien. (c) (c) Other assets as security. Contracting officers may consider the guidance at 28.203 and 28.204 in determining which types of assets may be acceptable as security. For the purpose of applying the guidance in part  28 to this subsection, the term "surety" and/or "individual surety" should be interpreted to mean "offeror" and/or "contractor." (d) (d) Other forms of security. Other acceptable forms of security include- (e) (e) Management of risk and security. In establishing contract financing terms, the contracting officer must be aware of certain risks. For example, very high amounts of financing early in the contract (front-end loading) may unduly increase the risk to the Government. The security and the amounts and timing of financing payments must be analyzed as a whole to determine whether the arrangement will be in the best interest of the Government.
32.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.241-13 Capital Credits. (a) (a) The Government is a member of the ____________ [insert cooperative name], and as any other member, is entitled to capital credits consistent with the bylaws of the cooperative, which states the obligation of the Contractor to pay capital credits and which specifies the method and time of payment. (b) (b) The Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer, or the designated representative of the Contracting Officer, in writing, on an _________ basis [insert period of time] a list of accrued credits by contract number, year, and delivery point. (c) (c) Payment of capital credits will be made by check, payable to the _________ [insert agency name], and forwarded to the Contracting Officer at ________________ [insert agency address], unless otherwise directed in writing by the Contracting Officer. Checks shall cite the current or last contract number and indicate whether the check is partial or final payment for all capital credits accrued.
35.017 Federally Funded Research and Development Centers. (a) (a) Policy. (b) (b) Definitions. As used in this section-
53.221 [Reserved] No subsections found.
34.005-3 Concept exploration contracts. No subsections found.
28.101-3 Authority of an attorney-in-fact for a bid bond. (a) (a) Any person signing a bid bond as an attorney-in-fact shall include with the bid bond evidence of authority to bind the surety. (b) (b) An original, or a photocopy or facsimile of an original, power of attorney is sufficient evidence of such authority. (c) (c) For purposes of this section, electronic, mechanically-applied and printed signatures, seals and dates on the power of attorney shall be considered original signatures, seals and dates, without regard to the order in which they were affixed. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall- (e) (e) (f) (f) Determinations of non-responsibility based on the unacceptability of a power of attorney are not subject to the Certificate of Competency process of subpart 19.6 if the surety has disavowed the validity of the power of attorney.
52.242 [Reserved] No subsections found.
7.304 [Reserved] No subsections found.
43.203 Change order accounting procedures. (a) (a) Contractors’ accounting systems are seldom designed to segregate the costs of performing changed work. Therefore, before prospective contractors submit offers, the contracting officer should advise them of the possible need to revise their accounting procedures to comply with the cost segregation requirements of the Change Order Accounting clause at 52.243-6. (b) (b) The following categories of direct costs normally are segregable and accountable under the terms of the Change Order Accounting clause:
19.502-9 Withdrawing or modifying small business set-asides. (a) (a) If, before award of a contract involving a total or partial small business set-aside, the contracting officer considers that award would be detrimental to the public interest (e.g., payment of more than a fair market price), the contracting officer may withdraw the small business set-aside, whether it was unilateral or joint. The contracting officer shall initiate a withdrawal of an individual total or partial small business set-aside, by giving written notice to the agency small business specialist and the SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) stating the reasons. In a similar manner, the contracting officer may modify a unilateral or joint class small business set-aside to withdraw one or more individual acquisitions. (b) (b) If the agency small business specialist does not agree to a withdrawal or modification, the case shall be promptly referred to the SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) for review. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall prepare a written statement supporting any withdrawal or modification of a small business set-aside and include it in the contract file.
3.603 Responsibilities of the contracting officer. (a) (a) Before awarding a contract, the contracting officer shall obtain an authorization under 3.602 if- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall comply with the requirements and guidance in subpart  9.5 before awarding a contract to an organization owned or substantially owned or controlled by Government employees.
12.203 Procedures for solicitation, evaluation, and award. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall use the policies unique to the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services prescribed in this part in conjunction with the policies and procedures for solicitation, evaluation and award prescribed in part  13, Simplified Acquisition Procedures; part  14 Sealed Bidding; or part  15, Contracting by Negotiation, as appropriate for the particular acquisition. The contracting officer may use the streamlined procedure for soliciting offers for commercial product or commercial service prescribed in 12.603. For acquisitions of commercial products or commercial services exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold but not exceeding $7.5 million ($15 million for acquisitions as described in 13.500 (c)), including options, contracting activities may use any of the simplified procedures authorized by subpart  13.5. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall ensure the criteria at 15.101-2(c) are met when using the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process.
Subpart 42.10 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
35.017-4 Reviewing FFRDC’s. (a) (a) The sponsor, prior to extending the contract or agreement with an FFRDC, shall conduct a comprehensive review of the use and need for the FFRDC. The review will be coordinated with any co-sponsors and may be performed in conjunction with the budget process. If the sponsor determines that its sponsorship is no longer appropriate, it shall apprise other agencies which use the FFRDC of the determination and afford them an opportunity to assume sponsorship. (b) (b) Approval to continue or terminate the sponsorship shall rest with the head of the sponsoring agency. This determination shall be based upon the results of the review conducted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this subsection. (c) (c) An FFRDC review should include the following:
25.201 Policy. (a) (a) Except as provided in 25.202, use only domestic construction materials in construction contracts performed in the United States. (b) (b) The Buy American statute restricts the purchase of construction materials that are not domestic construction materials. For manufactured construction materials, the Buy American statute, E.O. 13881, and E.O. 14005 use a two-part test to define domestic construction materials. (c) (c)
50.102-2 Contract adjustment boards. No subsections found.
45.105 Contractors’ property management system compliance. (a) (a) The agency responsible for contract administration shall conduct an analysis of the contractor’s property management policies, procedures, practices, and systems. This analysis shall be accomplished as frequently as conditions warrant, in accordance with agency procedures. (b) (b) The property administrator shall notify the contractor in writing when the contractor's property management system does not comply with contractual requirements, shall request prompt correction of deficiencies, and shall request from the contractor a corrective action plan, including a schedule for correction of the deficiencies. If the contractor does not correct the deficiencies in accordance with the schedule, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor, in writing, that failure to take the required corrective action(s) may result in- (c) (c) If the contractor fails to take the required corrective action(s) in response to the notification provided by the contracting officer in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor in writing of any Government decision to apply the remedies described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. (d) (d) When the property administrator determines that a reported case of loss of Government property is a risk assumed by the Government, the property administrator shall notify the contractor in writing that it is granted relief of stewardship responsibility and liability in accordance with 52.245-1(f)(1)(vii). Where the property administrator determines that the risk of loss of Government property is not assumed by the Government, the property administrator shall request that the contracting officer hold the contractor responsible and liable.
49.105-1 Termination status reports. No subsections found.
Part 6 - Competition Requirements No subsections found.
22.403-5 Executive Order 13706. No subsections found.
27.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
13.303-1 General. (a) (a) A blanket purchase agreement (BPA) is a simplified method of filling anticipated repetitive needs for supplies or services by establishing "charge accounts" with qualified sources of supply (see subpart  16.7 for additional coverage of agreements). (b) (b) BPAs should be established for use by an organization responsible for providing supplies for its own operations or for other offices, installations, projects, or functions. Such organizations, for example, may be organized supply points, separate independent or detached field parties, or one-person posts or activities. (c) (c) The use of BPAs does not exempt an agency from the responsibility for keeping obligations and expenditures within available funds.
49.404 Surety-takeover agreements. (a) (a) The procedures in this section apply primarily, but not solely, to fixed-price construction contracts terminated for default. (b) (b) Since the surety is liable for damages resulting from the contractor’s default, the surety has certain rights and interests in the completion of the contract work and application of any undisbursed funds. Therefore, the contracting officer must consider carefully the surety’s proposals for completing the contract. The contracting officer must take action on the basis of the Government’s interest, including the possible effect upon the Government’s rights against the surety. (c) (c) The contracting officer should permit surety offers to complete the contract, unless the contracting officer believes that the persons or firms proposed by the surety to complete the work are not competent and qualified or the proposal is not in the best interest of the Government. (d) (d) There may be conflicting demands for the defaulting contractor’s assets, including unpaid prior earnings (retained percentages and unpaid progress estimates). Therefore, the surety may include a "takeover" agreement in its proposal, fixing the surety’s rights to payment from those funds. The contracting officer may (but not before the effective date of termination) enter into a written agreement with the surety. The contracting officer should consider using a tripartite agreement among the Government, the surety, and the defaulting contractor to resolve the defaulting contractor’s residual rights, including assertions to unpaid prior earnings. (e) (e) Any takeover agreement must require the surety to complete the contract and the Government to pay the surety’s costs and expenses up to the balance of the contract price unpaid at the time of default, subject to the following conditions:
14.105 Solicitations for informational or planning purposes. No subsections found.
32.112-1 Subcontractor assertions of nonpayment. (a) (a) In accordance with Section 806(a)(4) of Pub.L.102-190, as amended by Sections2091 and 8105 of Pub.L.103-355 (10 U.S.C. 4601 note prec.), upon the assertion by a subcontractor or supplier of a Federal contractor that the subcontractor or supplier has not been paid in accordance with the payment terms of the subcontract, purchase order, or other agreement with the prime contractor, the contracting officer may determine- (b) (b) If, in making the determination in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this subsection, the contracting officer finds the prime contractor is not in compliance, the contracting officer may- (c) (c) If the contracting officer determines that a certification referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this subsection is inaccurate in any material respect, the contracting officer shall initiate administrative or other remedial action.
41.402 Rate changes and regulatory intervention. (a) (a) When a change is proposed to rates or terms and conditions of service to the Government, the agency shall promptly determine whether the proposed change is reasonable, justified, and not discriminatory. (b) (b) If a change is proposed to rates or terms and conditions of service that may be of interest to other Federal agencies, and intervention before a regulatory body is considered justified, the matter shall be referred to GSA. The agency may request from GSA a delegation of authority for the agency to intervene on behalf of the consumer interests of the Federal executive agencies (see 41.301). (c) (c) Pursuant to 52.241-7, Change in Rates or Terms and Conditions of Service for Regulated Services, if a regulatory body approves a rate change, any rate change shall be made a part of the contract by unilateral contract modification or otherwise documented in accordance with agency procedures. The approved applicable rate shall be effective on the date determined by the regulatory body and resulting rates and charges shall be paid promptly to avoid late payment provisions. Copies of the modification containing the approved rate change shall be sent to the agency’s paying office or office responsible for verifying billed amounts (see 41.401). (d) (d) If the utility supplier is not regulated and the rates, terms, and conditions of service are subject to negotiation pursuant to the clause at 52.241-8, Change in Rates or Terms and Conditions of Service for Unregulated Services, any rate change shall be made a part of the contract by contract modification, with copies sent to the agency’s paying office or office responsible for verifying billed amounts.
52.242-6 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 5.4 - Release of Information No subsections found.
23.107 Statutory purchasing programs. No subsections found.
52.222-54 Employment Eligibility Verification. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Enrollment and verification requirements. (c) (c) Web site. Information on registration for and use of the E-Verify program can be obtained via the Internet at the Department of Homeland Security Web site: https://www.e-Verify.gov. (d) (d) Individuals previously verified. The Contractor is not required by this clause to perform additional employment verification using E-Verify for any employee- (e) (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the requirements of this clause, including this paragraph (e) (appropriately modified for identification of the parties), in each subcontract that-
46.303 Cost-reimbursement supply contracts. No subsections found.
52.238 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.242-14 Suspension of Work. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may order the Contractor, in writing, to suspend, delay, or interrupt all or any part of the work of this contract for the period of time that the Contracting Officer determines appropriate for the convenience of the Government. (b) (b) If the performance of all or any part of the work is, for an unreasonable period of time, suspended, delayed, or interrupted (1)by an act of the Contracting Officer in the administration of this contract, or (2)by the Contracting Officer’s failure to act within the time specified in this contract (or within a reasonable time if not specified), an adjustment shall be made for any increase in the cost of performance of this contract (excluding profit) necessarily caused by the unreasonable suspension, delay, or interruption, and the contract modified in writing accordingly. However, no adjustment shall be made under this clause for any suspension, delay, or interruption to the extent that performance would have been so suspended, delayed, or interrupted by any other cause, including the fault or negligence of the Contractor, or for which an equitable adjustment is provided for or excluded under any other term or condition of this contract. (c) (c) A claim under this clause shall not be allowed-
28.102-2 Amount required. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this subsection- (b) (b) Contracts exceeding $150,000- (c) (c) Contracts exceeding $35,000 but not exceeding $150,000. Unless the contracting officer determines that a lesser amount is adequate for the protection of the Government, the penal amount of the payment bond or the amount of alternative payment protection must equal- (d) (d) Securing additional payment protection. If the contract price increases, the Government must secure any needed additional protection by directing the contractor to- (e) (e) Reducing amounts. The contracting officer may reduce the amount of security to support a bond, subject to the conditions of 28.203-3(c) or 28.204(b).
18.112 Letter contracts. No subsections found.
52.232-37 Multiple Payment Arrangements. (a) (a) Elsewhere in this contract or agreement; or (b) (b) In individual orders placed under this contract or agreement.
Part 21 - Reserved No subsections found.
22.1602 Policy. (a) (a) Executive Order 13496 requires contractors to post a notice informing employees of their rights under Federal labor laws. (b) (b) The Secretary has determined that the notice must contain employee rights under the National Labor Relations Act (Act), 29 U.S.C. 151 et seq. The Act encourages collective bargaining, and protects the exercise by employees of their freedom to associate, to self-organize, and to designate representatives of their own choosing for the purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or protection.
1.603-2 Selection. (a) (a) Experience in Government contracting and administration, commercial purchasing, or related fields; (b) (b) Education or special training in business administration, law, accounting, engineering, or related fields; (c) (c) Knowledge of acquisition policies and procedures, including this and other applicable regulations; (d) (d) Specialized knowledge in the particular assigned field of contracting; and (e) (e) Satisfactory completion of acquisition training courses.
52.215-9 Changes or Additions	to Make-or-Buy Program. (a) (a) The	Contractor shall perform in accordance with the make-or-buy program	incorporated in this contract. If the Contractor proposes to change	the program, the Contractor shall, reasonably in advance of the	proposed change, (1) notify the Contracting Officer in writing,	and (2) submit justification in sufficient detail to permit evaluation.	Changes in the place of performance of any "make" items in the program	are subject to this requirement. (b) (b) For items	deferred at the time of negotiation of this contract for later addition	to the program, the Contractor shall, at the earliest possible time- (c) (c) Modification	of the make-or-buy program to incorporate proposed changes or additions	shall be effective upon the Contractor’s receipt of the Contracting	Officer’s written approval.
52.247-39 F.o.b. Inland Point, Country of Importation. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. inland point, country of importation," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government, on board the indicated type of conveyance of the carrier, delivered to the specified inland point where the consignee’s facility is located. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
32.101 Authority. No subsections found.
52.223-19 Compliance with Environmental Management Systems. No subsections found.
49.112 Payment. No subsections found.
28.307 Insurance under cost-reimbursement contracts. No subsections found.
4.1502 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 25.4 - Trade Agreements No subsections found.
52.205 [Reserved] No subsections found.
15.502 Applicability. No subsections found.
4.102 Contractor’s signature. (a) (a) Individuals. A contract with an individual shall be signed by that individual. A contract with an individual doing business as a firm shall be signed by that individual, and the signature shall be followed by the individual’s typed, stamped, or printed name and the words ", an individual doing business as _________" [insert name of firm]. (b) (b) Partnerships. A contract with a partnership shall be signed in the partnership name. Before signing for the Government, the contracting officer shall obtain a list of all partners and ensure that the individual(s) signing for the partnership have authority to bind the partnership. (c) (c) Corporations. A contract with a corporation shall be signed in the corporate name, followed by the word "by" and the signature and title of the person authorized to sign. The contracting officer shall ensure that the person signing for the corporation has authority to bind the corporation. (d) (d) Joint venturers. A contract with joint venturers may involve any combination of individuals, partnerships, or corporations. The contract shall be signed by each participant in the joint venture in the manner prescribed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each type of participant. When a corporation is participating, the contracting officer shall verify that the corporation is authorized to participate in the joint venture. (e) (e) Agents. When an agent is to sign the contract, other than as stated in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the agent’s authorization to bind the principal must be established by evidence satisfactory to the contracting officer.
27.404-1 Unlimited rights data. (a) (a) Data first produced in the performance of a contract (except to the extent the data constitute minor modifications to data that are limited rights data or restricted computer software). (b) (b) Form, fit, and function data delivered under contract. (c) (c) Data (except as may be included with restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under a contract. (d) (d) All other data delivered under the contract other than limited rights data or restricted computer software (see 27.404-2).
52.209-12 Certification Regarding Tax Matters. (a) (a) This provision implements section 523 of Division B of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235), and similar provisions, if contained in subsequent appropriations acts. (b) (b) If the Offeror is proposing a total contract price that will exceed $5.5 million (including options), the Offeror shall certify that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, it
8.403 Applicability. (a) (a) Procedures in this subpart apply to— (b) (b) GSA may establish special ordering procedures for a particular schedule. In this case, that schedule will specify those special ordering procedures. Unless otherwise noted, special ordering procedures established for a Federal Supply Schedule take precedence over the procedures in 8.405. (c) (c) In accordance with section 1427(b) of Public Law 108-136 (40 U.S.C. 1103 note), for requirements that substantially or to a dominant extent specify performance of architect-engineer services (as defined in 2.101), agencies—
52.248-2 Value Engineering-Architect-Engineer. (a) (a) General. The Contractor shall (1) perform value engineering (VE) services and submit progress reports as specified in the Schedule; and (2) submit to the Contracting Officer any resulting value engineering proposals (VEP’s). Value engineering activities shall be performed concurrently with, and without delay to, the schedule set forth in the contract. The services shall include VE evaluation and review and study of design documents immediately following completion of the 35 percent design state or at such stages as the Contracting Officer may direct. Each separately priced line item for VE services shall define specifically the scope of work to be accomplished and may include VE studies of items other than design documents. The Contractor shall be paid as the contract specifies for this effort, but shall not share in savings which may result from acceptance and use of VEP’s by the Government. (b) (b) Definitions. "Life cycle cost," as used in this clause, is the sum of all costs over the useful life of a building, system or product. It includes the cost of design, construction, acquisition, operation, maintenance, and salvage (resale) value, if any. (c) (c) Submissions. After award of an architect-engineering contract the contractor shall- (d) (d) VEP preparation. As a minimum, the contractor shall include the following information in each VEP: (e) (e) VEP acceptance. Approved VEP’s shall be implemented by bilateral modification to this contract.
Subpart 16.2 - Fixed-Price Contracts No subsections found.
31.205-52 Asset valuations resulting from business combinations. (a) (a) For tangible capital assets, when the purchase method of accounting for a business combination is used, whether or not the contract or subcontract is subject to CAS, the allowable depreciation and cost of money shall be based on the capitalized asset values measured and assigned in accordance with 48 CFR9904.404-50(d), if allocable, reasonable, and not otherwise unallowable. (b) (b) For intangible capital assets, when the purchase method of accounting for a business combination is used, allowable amortization and cost of money shall be limited to the total of the amounts that would have been allowed had the combination not taken place.
14.204 Records of invitations for bids and records of bids. (a) (a) Each contracting office shall retain a record of each invitation that it issues and each abstract or record of bids. Contracting officers shall review and utilize the information available in connection with subsequent acquisitions of the same or similar items. (b) (b) The file for each invitation shall show the distribution that was made and the date the invitation was issued. The names and addresses of prospective bidders who requested the invitation and were not included on the original solicitation list shall be added to the list and made a part of the record.
19.1308 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
52.241-7 Change in Rates or Terms and Conditions of Service for Regulated Services. (a) (a) This clause applies to the extent services furnished under this contract are subject to regulation by a regulatory body. The Contractor agrees to give *________________ written notice of (1) the filing of an application for change in rates or terms and conditions of service concurrently with the filing of the application and (2) any changes pending with the regulatory body as of the date of contract award. Such notice shall fully describe the proposed change. If, during the term of this contract, the regulatory body having jurisdiction approves any changes, the Contractor shall forward to the Contracting Officer a copy of such changes within 15 days after the effective date thereof. The Contractor agrees to continue furnishing service under this contract in accordance with the amended tariff, and the Government agrees to pay for such service at the higher or lower rates as of the date when such rates are made effective. (b) (b) The Contractor agrees that throughout the life of this contract the applicable published and unpublished rate schedule(s) shall not be in excess of the lowest cost published and unpublished rate schedule(s) available to any other customers of the same class under similar conditions of use and service. (c) (c) In the event that the regulatory body promulgates any regulation concerning matters other than rates which affects this contract, the Contractor shall immediately provide a copy to the Contracting Officer. The Government shall not be bound to accept any new regulation inconsistent with Federal laws or regulations. (d) (d) Any changes to rates or terms and conditions of service shall be made a part of this contract by the issuance of a contract modification unless otherwise specified in the contract. The effective date of the change shall be the effective date by the regulatory body. Any factors not governed by the regulatory body will have an effective date as agreed to by the parties.
22.1012-2 Wage determinations based on collective bargaining agreements. (a) (a) In sealed bidding, a new or changed collective bargaining agreement shall not be effective under 41 U.S.C. 6707(c) if the contracting agency has received notice of the terms of the new or changed collective bargaining agreement less than 10 days before bid opening and the contracting officer determines that there is not reasonable time to incorporate the new or changed terms of the collective bargaining agreement in the solicitation. (b) (b) For contractual actions other than sealed bidding, a new or changed collective bargaining agreement shall not be effective under 41 U.S.C. 6707(c) if notice of the terms of the new or changed collective bargaining agreement is received by the contracting agency after award of a successor contract or a modification as specified in 22.1007(b), provided that the contract start of performance is within 30 days of the award of the contract or of the specified modification. If the contract does not specify a start of performance date which is within 30 days of the award of the contract or of the specified modification, or if contract performance does not commence within 30 days of the award of the contract or of the specified modification, any notice of the terms of a new or changed collective bargaining agreement received by the agency not less than 10 days before commencement of the work shall be effective for purposes of the successor contract under 41 U.S.C. 6707(c). (c) (c) The limitations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection shall apply only if timely notification required in 22.1010 has been given. (d) (d) If the contracting officer has submitted an e98 to Department of Labor requesting a wage determination based on a collective bargaining agreement and has not received a response from the Department of Labor within 10 days, the contracting officer shall contact the Wage and Hour Division by telephone to determine when the wage determination can be expected. (The telephone number is provided on the e98 website.) If the Department of Labor is unable to provide the wage determination by the latest date needed to maintain the acquisition schedule, the contracting officer shall incorporate the collective bargaining agreement itself in a solicitation or other contract action (e.g., exercise of option) and include a wage determination referencing that collective bargaining agreement created by use of the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website (see 22.1008-1(d)(2)).
Subpart 22.17 - Combating Trafficking in Persons No subsections found.
52.250-5 SAFETY ActEquitable Adjustment. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Prices for the items covered by the pre-qualification designation notice, block designation, or block certification in the contract were established presuming DHS will issue a SAFETY Act designation (or SAFETY Act certification) for those items. (c) (c) In order to qualify for an equitable adjustment in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause the Contractor shall in good faith pursue obtaining- (d) (d)
39.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Information technology, including financial management systems, consistent with other parts of this regulation, OMB Circular No.A-127, Financial Management Systems and OMB Circular No.A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources. (b) (b) Information and communication technology (see 2.101).
Subpart 6.5 - Advocates for Competition No subsections found.
22.1015 Discovery of errors by the Department of Labor. No subsections found.
37.109 Services of quasi-military armed forces. No subsections found.
53.236-1 Construction. (a) (a) [Reserved] (b) (b) [Reserved] (c) (c) [Reserved] (d) (d) SF 1442 (Rev. 12/2022.),  Solicitation, Offer and Award (Construction, Alteration, or Repair). SF 1442 is prescribed for use in soliciting offers and awarding contracts expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold for- (e) (e) OF 347 (Rev.2/2012), Order for Supplies or Services. OF 347, prescribed in 53.213(f) (or an approved agency form), may be used for contracts under the simplified acquisition threshold for- (f) (f) OF 1419(11/88Ed.), Abstract of Offers-Construction, and OF 1419A (11/88Ed.), Abstract of Offers-Construction, Continuation Sheet. OF’s 1419 and 1419A are prescribed for use in recording bids (and may be used for recording proposal information), as specified in 36.701(c).
1.303 Publication and codification. (a) (a) Agency-wide acquisition regulations shall be published in the Federal Register as required by law, shall be codified under an assigned chapter in Title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, and shall parallel the FAR in format, arrangement, and numbering system (but see 1.105-1(c)). Coverage in an agency acquisition regulation that implements a specific part, subpart, section, or subsection of the FAR shall be numbered and titled to correspond to the appropriate FAR number and title. Supplementary material for which there is no counterpart in the FAR shall be codified using chapter, part, subpart, section, or subsection numbers of 70 and up (e.g., for the Department of Interior, whose assigned chapter number in Title 48 is 14, Part 1470, Subpart 1401.70, section 1401.370, or subsection 1401.301-70). (b) (b) Issuances under 1.301(a)(2) need not be published in the Federal Register.
50.101-3 Records. (a) (a) The contractor’s request; (b) (b) All relevant memorandums, correspondence, affidavits, and other pertinent documents; (c) (c) The Memorandum of Decision (see 50.103-6 and 50.104-2); and (d) (d) A copy of the contractual document implementing an approved request.
16.203-3 Limitations. No subsections found.
36.211 Distribution of advance notices and solicitations. (a) (a) Advance notices and solicitations should be distributed to reach as many prospective offerors as practicable. Contracting officers may send notices and solicitations to organizations that maintain, without charge to the public, display rooms for the benefit of prospective offerors, subcontractors, and material suppliers. If requested by such organizations, this may be done for all or a stated class of construction projects on an annual or semiannual basis. Contracting officers may determine the geographical extent of distribution of advance notices and solicitations on a case-by-case basis. (b) (b) As required by 15 U.S.C. 644(w), the contracting officer shall transmit to the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE) a notice (see 5.205(h), in solicitation notices posted at the GPE for construction contracts anticipated to be awarded to a small business pursuant to part 19. The notice shall include certain information regarding the agency's definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders under construction contracts. This information includes:
9.305 Risk. (a) (a) Progress payments; and (b) (b) Termination settlements if the contract is terminated for the convenience of the Government.
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
9.110-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
28.203-5 Exclusion of individual sureties. (a) (a)An individual may be excluded from acting as a surety on bonds submitted by offerors on procurement by the executive branch of the Federal Government, by the acquiring agency's head or designee utilizing the procedures in subpart  9.4. The exclusion shall be for the purpose of protecting the Government. (b) (b)An individual may be excluded for any of the following causes: (c) (c)An individual surety excluded pursuant to this section shall be entered as an exclusion in the System for Award Management (see 9.404). (d) (d)Contracting officers shall not accept the bonds of individual sureties whose names appear in an active exclusion record in the System for Award Management (see 9.404) unless the acquiring agency's head or a designee states in writing the compelling reasons justifying acceptance. (e) (e)An exclusion of an individual surety under this section will also preclude such party from acting as a contractor in accordance with subpart  9.4.
12.102 Applicability. (a) (a) This part shall be used for the acquisition of supplies or services that meet the definitions of “commercial product” or “commercial service” at 2.101. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall use the policies in this part in conjunction with the policies and procedures for solicitation, evaluation and award prescribed in part  13, Simplified Acquisition Procedures; part  14, Sealed Bidding; or part  15, Contracting by Negotiation, as appropriate for the particular acquisition. (c) (c) Contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services are subject to the policies in other parts of the FAR. When a policy in another part of the FAR is inconsistent with a policy in this part, this part  12 shall take precedence for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. (d) (d) The definition of commercial product uses the phrase “purposes other than governmental purposes”. These purposes are those that are not unique to a government. (e) (e) This part shall not apply to the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services— (f) (f)
52.204-12 Unique Entity Identifier Maintenance. (a) (a) Definition. Unique entity identifier, as used in this clause, means a number or other identifier used to identify a specific commercial, nonprofit, or Government entity. See www.sam.gov for the designated entity for establishing unique entity identifiers. (b) (b) The Contractor shall ensure that the unique entity identifier is maintained with the entity designated at the System for Award Management (SAM) for establishment of the unique entity identifier throughout the life of the contract. The Contractor shall communicate any change to the unique entity identifier to the Contracting Officer within 30 days after the change, so an appropriate modification can be issued to update the data on the contract. A change in the unique entity identifier does not necessarily require a novation be accomplished.
40.202-3 Prohibition. (a) (a) Procuring a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system (section 1823 and 1826 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.). The prohibition includes extending or renewing a contract (e.g., exercising an option); (b) (b) On or after December 22, 2025, procuring services for the operation of a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system (section 1824 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.). The prohibition includes extending or renewing a contract (e.g., exercising an option); and (c) (c) On or after December 22, 2025, using Federal funds for the procurement or operation of a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system (section 1825 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.).
3.502 Subcontractor kickbacks. No subsections found.
47.405 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-63, Preference for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers, in solicitations and contracts whenever it is possible that U.S. Government-financed international air transportation of personnel (and their personal effects) or property will occur in the performance of the contract. This clause does not apply to contracts awarded using the simplified acquisition procedures in part  13 or contracts for commercial products (see part  12). (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-69, Reporting Requirement for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers Regarding Training to Prevent Human Trafficking, in solicitations and contracts with a U.S.-flag air carrier for the transportation by air of passengers. This clause is not applicable to solicitations issued or contracts awarded—
47.305-14 Mode of transportation. No subsections found.
Subpart 8.10 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.804 Extent of assignee’s protection. (a) (a) No payments made by the Government to the assignee under any contract assigned in accordance with the Act may be recovered on account of any liability of the contractor to the Government. This immunity of the assignee is effective whether the contractor’s liability arises from or independently of the assigned contract. (b) (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the inclusion of a no-setoff commitment in an assigned contract entitles the assignee to receive contract payments free of reduction or setoff for- (c) (c) In some circumstances, a setoff may be appropriate even though the assigned contract includes a no-setoff commitment; e.g.-
37.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
13.106-1 Soliciting competition. (a) (a) Considerations. In soliciting competition, the contracting officer shall consider the guidance in 13.104 and the following before requesting quotations or offers: (b) (b) Soliciting from a single source. (c) (c) Soliciting orally. (d) (d) Written solicitations. If obtaining electronic or oral quotations is uneconomical or impracticable, the contracting officer should issue paper solicitations for contract actions likely to exceed $25,000. The contracting officer shall issue a written solicitation for construction requirements exceeding $2,000. (e) (e) Use of options. Options may be included in solicitations, provided the requirements of subpart 17.2 are met and the aggregate value of the acquisition and all options does not exceed the dollar threshold for use of simplified acquisition procedures. (f) (f) Inquiries. An agency should respond to inquiries received through any medium (including electronic commerce) if doing so would not interfere with the efficient conduct of the acquisition.
25.100 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart implements- (b) (b) It applies to supplies acquired for use in the United States, including supplies acquired under contracts set aside for small business concerns, if-
16.405 Cost-reimbursement incentive contracts. No subsections found.
43.102 Policy. (a) (a) Only contracting officers acting within the scope of their authority are empowered to execute contract modifications on behalf of the Government. Other Government personnel shall not- (b) (b) Contract modifications, including changes that could be issued unilaterally, shall be priced before their execution if this can be done without adversely affecting the interest of the Government. If a significant cost increase could result from a contract modification and time does not permit negotiation of a price, at least a ceiling price shall be negotiated unless impractical.
29.401 Domestic contracts. No subsections found.
3.405 Misrepresentations or violations of the Covenant Against Contingent Fees. (a) (a) Government personnel who suspect or have evidence of attempted or actual exercise of improper influence, misrepresentation of a contingent fee arrangement, or other violation of the Covenant Against Contingent Fees shall report the matter promptly to the contracting officer or appropriate higher authority in accordance with agency procedures. (b) (b) When there is specific evidence or other reasonable basis to suspect one or more of the violations in paragraph (a) of this section, the chief of the contracting office shall review the facts and, if appropriate, take or direct one or more of the following, or other, actions:
47.502 Policy. (a) (a) The policy of the United States regarding the use of U.S.-flag vessels is stated in the following acts: (b) (b) Additional policies providing preference for the use of U.S.-flag vessels are contained in- (c) (c) The provisions of the Cargo Preference Act of 1954 may be temporarily waived when the Congress, the President, or the Secretary of Defense declares that an emergency justifying a temporary waiver exists and so notifies the appropriate agency or agencies.
Part 9 - Contractor Qualifications No subsections found.
32.903 Responsibilities. (a) (a) Agency heads- (b) (b) When drafting solicitations and contracts, contracting officers must identify for each line item number, subline item number, or exhibit line item number-
52.211-14 Notice of Priority	Rating for National Defense, Emergency Preparedness, and Energy	Program Use. No subsections found.
7.102 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies shall perform acquisition planning and conduct market research (see part  10) for all acquisitions in order to promote and provide for— (b) (b) This planning shall integrate the efforts of all personnel responsible for significant aspects of the acquisition. The purpose of this planning is to ensure that the Government meets its needs in the most effective, economical, and timely manner. Agencies that have a detailed acquisition planning system in place that generally meets the requirements of 7.104 and 7.105 need not revise their system to specifically meet all of these requirements.
23.108 Required Environmental Protection Agency purchasing programs. No subsections found.
16.502 Definite-quantity contracts. (a) (a) Description. A definite-quantity contract provides for delivery of a definite quantity of specific supplies or services for a fixed period, with deliveries or performance to be scheduled at designated locations upon order. (b) (b) Application. A definite-quantity contract may be used when it can be determined in advance that-
51.205 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.242-9 [Reserved] No subsections found.
7.107-3 Bundling. (a) (a) Bundling may provide substantial benefits to the Government. However, because of the potential impact on small business participation, before conducting an acquisition strategy that involves bundling, the agency shall make a written determination that the bundling is necessary and justified in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 644(e). A bundled requirement is considered necessary and justified if the agency would obtain measurably substantial benefits as compared to meeting its agency's requirements through separate smaller contracts or orders. (b) (b) The agency shall quantify the specific benefits identified through the use of market research and other techniques to explain how their impact would be measurably substantial (see 10.001(a)(2)(iv) and (a)(3)(vii)). (c) (c) Such benefits may include, but are not limited to- (d) (d) Benefits are measurably substantial if individually, in combination, or in the aggregate the anticipated financial benefits are equivalent to- (e) (e) Reduction of administrative or personnel costs alone is not sufficient justification for bundling unless the cost savings are expected to be at least ten percent of the estimated contract or order value (including options) of the bundled requirements. (f) (f) (g) (g) In assessing whether cost savings and/or price reduction would be achieved through bundling, the agency and SBA shall- (h) (h) If a determination is made that bundling is necessary and justified, the contracting officer shall include it in the acquisition strategy documentation and provide it to SBA upon request.
5.703 Definition. No subsections found.
49.602 Forms for settlement of terminated contracts. No subsections found.
19.801 [Reserved] No subsections found.
14.303 Modification or withdrawal of bids. (a) (a) Bids may be modified or withdrawn by any method authorized by the solicitation, if notice is received in the office designated in the solicitation not later than the exact time set for opening of bids. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile bids, bids may be modified or withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of bids, subject to the conditions specified in the provision prescribed in 14.201-6(v). Modifications received by facsimile shall be sealed in an envelope by a proper official. (b) (b) A bid may be withdrawn in person by a bidder or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for opening of bids, the identity of the persons requesting withdrawal is established and that person signs a receipt for the bid. (c) (c) Upon withdrawal of an electronically transmitted bid, the data received shall not be viewed and shall be purged from primary and backup data storage systems.
9.505-3 Providing evaluation services. No subsections found.
32.611 Contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.232-17, Interest, in solicitations and contracts unless it is contemplated that the contract will be in one or more of the following categories: (b) (b) The contracting officer	may insert the FAR clause at 52.232-17, Interest, in solicitations and contracts when it is	contemplated that the contract will be in any of the categories specified in 32.611(a).
52.251-2 Interagency Fleet Management System Vehicles and Related Services. No subsections found.
22.804-2 Construction. (a) (a) Construction contractors that hold a nonexempt (see 22.807) Government construction contract are required to meet- (b) (b) Each agency shall maintain a listing of covered geographical areas that are subject to affirmative action requirements that specify goals for minorities and women in covered construction trades. Information concerning, and additions to, this listing will be provided to the principally affected contracting officers in accordance with agency procedures. Any contracting officer contemplating a construction project in excess of $10,000 within a geographic area not known to be covered by specific affirmative action goals shall request instructions on the most current information from the OFCCP regional office, or as otherwise specified in agency regulations, before issuing the solicitation. (c) (c) Contracting officers shall give written notice to the OFCCP regional office within 10 working days of award of a construction contract subject to these affirmative action requirements. The notification shall include the name, address, and telephone number of the contractor; employer identification number; dollar amount of the contract; estimated starting and completion dates of the contract; the contract number; and the geographical area in which the contract is to be performed. When requested by the OFCCP regional office, the contracting officer shall arrange a conference among contractor, contracting activity, and compliance personnel to discuss the contractor’s compliance responsibilities.
47.306-1 Transportation cost determinations. (a) (a) A complete description of the commodity being acquired including packaging instructions. (b) (b) Planned date of award. (c) (c) Date of initial shipment. (d) (d) Total quantity to be shipped (including weight and cubic content, when appropriate). (e) (e) Delivery schedule. (f) (f) Contract period. (g) (g) Possible use of transit privileges, including stopoffs for partial loading or unloading, or both.
Subpart 7.2 - Planning for the Purchase of Supplies in Economic Quantities No subsections found.
46.202-2 Government reliance on inspection by contractor. (a) (a) Except as specified in (b) of this section, the Government shall rely on the contractor to accomplish all inspection and testing needed to ensure that supplies or services acquired at or below the simplified acquisition threshold conform to contract quality requirements before they are tendered to the Government (see 46.301). (b) (b) The Government shall not rely on inspection by the contractor if the contracting officer determines that the Government has a need to test the supplies or services in advance of their tender for acceptance, or to pass judgment upon the adequacy of the contractor’s internal work processes. In making the determination, the contracting officer shall consider-
23.301 Definition. No subsections found.
31.101 Objectives. No subsections found.
45.303 Use of Government property on independent research and development programs. (a) (a) Such use will not conflict with the primary use of the property or enable the contractor to retain property that could otherwise be released; (b) (b) The contractor agrees not to claim reimbursement against any Government contract for the rental value of the property; and (c) (c) A rental charge for the portion of the contractor’s IR&D program cost allocated to commercial work is deducted from the claim for reimbursement of any agreed-upon Government share of the contractor’s IR&D costs.
14.407-4 Mistakes after award. (a) (a) When a mistake in a contractor’s bid is not discovered until after award, the mistake may be corrected by contract modification if correcting the mistake would be favorable to the Government without changing the essential requirements of the specifications. (b) (b) In addition to the cases contemplated in paragraph (a) of this section or as otherwise authorized by law, agencies are authorized to make a determination- (c) (c) Determinations under paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section may be made only on the basis of clear and convincing evidence that a mistake in bid was made. In addition, it must be clear that the mistake was- (d) (d) Each proposed determination shall be coordinated with legal counsel in accordance with agency procedures. (e) (e) Mistakes alleged or disclosed after award shall be processed as follows: (f) (f) Each agency shall include in the contract file a record of-
4.900 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) information that may be used for debt collection purposes; and (b) (b) Contract information and payment information for submittal to the payment office for Internal Revenue Service (IRS) reporting purposes.
9.202 Policy. (a) (a) (b) (b) When justified under the circumstances, the agency activity responsible for establishing a qualification requirement shall submit to the advocate for competition for the procuring activity responsible for purchasing the item subject to the qualification requirement, a determination that it is unreasonable to specify the standards for qualification which a prospective offeror (or its product) must satisfy. After considering any comments of the advocate for competition reviewing the determination, the head of the procuring activity may waive the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) through (a)(4) of this section for up to 2 years with respect to the item subject to the qualification requirement. A copy of the waiver shall be furnished to the head of the agency or other official responsible for actions under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The waiver authority provided in this paragraph does not apply with respect to qualification requirements contained in a QPL, QML, or QBL. (c) (c) If a potential offeror can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the contracting officer that the potential offeror (or its product) meets the standards established for qualification or can meet them before the date specified for award of the contract, a potential offeror may not be denied the opportunity to submit and have considered an offer for a contract solely because the potential offeror- (d) (d) The procedures in subpart  19.6 for referring matters to the Small Business Administration are not mandatory on the contracting officer when the basis for a referral would involve a challenge by the offeror to either the validity of the qualification requirement or the offeror’s compliance with such requirement. (e) (e) The contracting officer need not delay a proposed award in order to provide a potential offeror with an opportunity to demonstrate its ability to meet the standards specified for qualification. In addition, when approved by the head of an agency or designee, a procurement need not be delayed in order to comply with paragraph (a) of this section. (f) (f) Within 7 years following enforcement of a QPL, QML, or QBL by DoD or NASA, or within 7 years after any qualification requirement was originally established by a civilian agency other than NASA, the qualification requirement shall be examined and revalidated in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. For DoD and NASA, qualification requirements other than QPL’s, QML’s and QBL’s shall be examined and revalidated within 7 years after establishment of the requirement under paragraph (a) of this section. Any periods for which a waiver under paragraph (b) of this section is in effect shall be excluded in computing the 7 years within which review and revalidation must occur.
31.205-1 Public relations and advertising costs. (a) (a) "Public relations" means all functions and activities dedicated to- (b) (b) "Advertising" means the use of media to promote the sale of products or services and to accomplish the activities referred to in paragraph (d) of this subsection, regardless of the medium employed, when the advertiser has control over the form and content of what will appear, the media in which it will appear, and when it will appear. Advertising media include but are not limited to conventions, exhibits, free goods, samples, magazines, newspapers, trade papers, direct mail, dealer cards, window displays, outdoor advertising, radio, and television. (c) (c) Public relations and advertising costs include the costs of media time and space, purchased services performed by outside organizations, as well as the applicable portion of salaries, travel, and fringe benefits of employees engaged in the functions and activities identified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection. (d) (d) The only allowable advertising costs are those that are- (e) (e) Allowable public relations costs include the following: (f) (f) Unallowable public relations and advertising costs include the following:
Subpart 41.2 - Acquiring Utility Services No subsections found.
47.208-2 Contract clause. No subsections found.
19.502-6 	Setting aside a class of acquisitions for small business. (a) (a) A class of acquisitions of selected products or services, or a portion of the acquisitions, may be set aside for exclusive participation by small business concerns if individual acquisitions in the class will meet the criteria in 19.502-1, 19.502-2, or 19.502-3(a). The determination to make a class small business set-aside shall not depend on the existence of a current acquisition if future acquisitions can be clearly foreseen. (b) (b) The determination to set aside a class of acquisitions for small business may be either unilateral or joint. (c) (c) Each class small business set-aside determination shall be in writing and must- (d) (d) The contracting officer shall review each individual acquisition arising under a class small business set-aside to identify any changes in the magnitude of requirements, specifications, delivery requirements, or competitive market conditions that have occurred since the initial approval of the class set-aside. If there are any changes of such a material nature as to result in probable payment of more than a fair market price by the Government or in a change in the capability of small business concerns to satisfy the requirements, the contracting officer may withdraw or modify (see 19.502-9(a)) the unilateral or joint set-aside by giving written notice to the SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) stating the reasons.
19.811-3 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-11, Special 8(a) Contract Conditions, in contracts between the SBA and the agency when the acquisition is accomplished using the procedures of 19.811-1(a) and (b). (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-12, Special 8(a) Subcontract Conditions, in contracts between the SBA and its 8(a) contractor when the acquisition is accomplished using the procedures of 19.811-1(a) and (b). (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-17, Section 8(a) Award, in competitive solicitations and contracts when the acquisition is accomplished using the procedures of 19.805 and in sole source awards which utilize the alternative procedure in 19.811-1(c). (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-18, Notification of Competition Limited to Eligible 8(a) Participants, in competitive solicitations and contracts when the acquisition is accomplished using the procedures of 19.805. Use the clause at 52.219-18 with its Alternate I when competition is to be limited to 8(a) participants within one or more specific SBA districts pursuant to 19.804-2. (e) (e) For contracts or orders resulting from this subpart, see 19.507(e) for use of 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, and 19.507(h) for use of 52.219-33, Nonmanufacturer Rule.
Subpart 24.3 - Privacy Training No subsections found.
15.405 Price negotiation. (a) (a) The purpose of performing cost or price analysis is to develop a negotiation position that permits the contracting officer and the offeror an opportunity to reach agreement on a fair and reasonable price. A fair and reasonable price does not require that agreement be reached on every element of cost, nor is it mandatory that the agreed price be within the contracting officer’s initial negotiation position. Taking into consideration the advisory recommendations, reports of contributing specialists, and the current status of the contractor’s purchasing system, the contracting officer is responsible for exercising the requisite judgment needed to reach a negotiated settlement with the offeror and is solely responsible for the final price agreement. However, when significant audit or other specialist recommendations are not adopted, the contracting officer should provide rationale that supports the negotiation result in the price negotiation documentation. (b) (b) The contracting officer’s primary concern is the overall price the Government will actually pay. The contracting officer’s objective is to negotiate a contract of a type and with a price providing the contractor the greatest incentive for efficient and economical performance. The negotiation of a contract type and a price are related and should be considered together with the issues of risk and uncertainty to the contractor and the Government. Therefore, the contracting officer should not become preoccupied with any single element and should balance the contract type, cost, and profit or fee negotiated to achieve a total result-a price that is fair and reasonable to both the Government and the contractor. (c) (c) The Government’s cost objective and proposed pricing arrangement directly affect the profit or fee objective. Because profit or fee is only one of several interrelated variables, the contracting officer shall not agree on profit or fee without concurrent agreement on cost and type of contract. (d) (d) If, however, the contractor insists on a price or demands a profit or fee that the contracting officer considers unreasonable, and the contracting officer has taken all authorized actions (including determining the feasibility of developing an alternative source) without success, the contracting officer shall refer the contract action to a level above the contracting officer. Disposition of the action should be documented.
52.207-5 Option to Purchase Equipment. (a) (a) The Government may purchase the equipment provided on a lease or rental basis under this contract. The Contracting Officer may exercise this option only by providing a unilateral modification to the Contractor. The effective date of the purchase will be specified in the unilateral modification and may be any time during the period of the contract, including any extensions thereto. (b) (b) Except for final payment and transfer of title to the Government, the lease or rental portion of the contract becomes complete and lease or rental charges shall be discontinued on the day immediately preceding the effective date of purchase specified in the unilateral modification required in paragraph (a) of this clause. (c) (c) The purchase conversion cost of the equipment shall be computed as of the effective date specified in the unilateral modification required in paragraph (a) of this clause, on the basis of the purchase price set forth in the contract, minus the total purchase option credits accumulated during the period of lease or rental, calculated by the formula contained elsewhere in this contract. (d) (d) The accumulated purchase option credits available to determine the purchase conversion cost will also include any credits accrued during a period of lease or rental of the equipment under any previous Government contract if the equipment has been on continuous lease or rental. The movement of equipment from one site to another site shall be "continuous rental."
48.104 Sharing arrangements. No subsections found.
9.109-1 Authority. No subsections found.
30.607 Subcontract administration. No subsections found.
6.302-7 Public interest. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Application. This authority may be used when none of the other authorities in 6.302 apply. (c) (c) Limitations.
52.216-7 Allowable Cost and Payment. (a) (a) Invoicing. (b) (b) Reimbursing costs. (c) (c) Small business concerns. A small business concern may receive more frequent payments than every 2 weeks. (d) (d) Final indirect cost rates. (e) (e) Billing rates. Until final annual indirect cost rates are established for any period, the Government shall reimburse the Contractor at billing rates established by the Contracting Officer or by an authorized representative (the cognizant auditor), subject to adjustment when the final rates are established. These billing rates- (f) (f) Quick-closeout procedures. Quick-closeout procedures are applicable when the conditions in FAR 42.708(a) are satisfied. (g) (g) Audit. At any time or times before final payment, the Contracting Officer may have the Contractor’s invoices or vouchers and statements of cost audited. Any payment may be- (h) (h) Final payment.
22.407 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts in excess of $2,000 for construction within the United States: (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.222-16, Approval of Wage Rates, in solicitations and contracts in excess of $2,000 for cost-reimbursement construction to be performed within the United States, except for contracts with a State or political subdivision thereof. (c) (c) A contract that is not primarily for construction may contain a requirement for some construction work to be performed in the United States. If under 22.402(b) the requirements of this subpart apply to the construction work, insert in such solicitations and contracts the applicable construction labor standards clauses required in this section and identify the item or items of construction work to which the clauses apply. (d) (d) [Reserved] (e) (e) Insert the clause at 52.222-30, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (None or Separately Specified Pricing Method), in solicitations and contracts if the contract is expected to be- (f) (f) Insert the clause at 52.222-31, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (Percentage Method), in solicitations and contracts if the contract is expected to be a fixed-price contract subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute that will contain option provisions by which the contracting officer may extend the term of the contract, and the contracting officer determines the most appropriate contract price adjustment method is the method at 22.404-12(c)(3). (g) (g) Insert the clause at 52.222-32, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (Actual Method), in solicitations and contracts if the contract is expected to be a fixed-price contract subject to the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute that will contain option provisions by which the contracting officer may extend the term of the contract, and the contracting officer determines the most appropriate method to establish contract price is the method at 22.404-12(c)(4). (h) (h) Insert the provision at 52.222-5, Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Secondary Site of the Work, in solicitations in excess of $2,000 for construction within the United States.
22.103-2 Policy. No subsections found.
32.006-3 Responsibilities. (a) (a) Agencies shall establish appropriate procedures to implement the policies and procedures of this section. (b) (b) Government personnel shall report suspected fraud related to advance, partial, or progress payments in accordance with agency regulations.
52.234-3 Notice of Earned Value Management System-Post Award Postaward Integrated Baseline Review. (a) (a) The offeror shall provide documentation that the Cognizant Federal Agency has determined that the proposed earned value management system (EVMS) complies with the EVMS guidelines in Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748 (EIA-748) (current version at time of solicitation). (b) (b) If the offeror proposes to use a system that has not been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this provision, the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with the EVMS guidelines. (c) (c) Offerors shall identify the major subcontractors, or major subcontracted effort if major subcontractors have not been selected, planned for application of the guidelines. The prime Contractor and the Government shall agree to subcontractors selected for application of the EVMS guidelines.
52.236-22 Design Within Funding Limitations. (a) (a) The Contractor shall accomplish the design services required under this contract so as to permit the award of a contract, using standard Federal Acquisition Regulation procedures for the construction of the facilities designed at a price that does not exceed the estimated construction contract price as set forth in paragraph (c) of this clause. When bids or proposals for the construction contract are received that exceed the estimated price, the contractor shall perform such redesign and other services as are necessary to permit contract award within the funding limitation. These additional services shall be performed at no increase in the price of this contract. However, the Contractor shall not be required to perform such additional services at no cost to the Government if the unfavorable bids or proposals are the result of conditions beyond its reasonable control. (b) (b) The Contractor will promptly advise the Contracting Officer if it finds that the project being designed will exceed or is likely to exceed the funding limitations and it is unable to design a usable facility within these limitations. Upon receipt of such information, the Contracting Officer will review the Contractor’s revised estimate of construction cost. The Government may, if it determines that the estimated construction contract price set forth in this contract is so low that award of a construction contract not in excess of such estimate is improbable, authorize a change in scope or materials as required to reduce the estimated construction cost to an amount within the estimated construction contract price set forth in paragraph (c) of this clause, or the Government may adjust such estimated construction contract price. When bids or proposals are not solicited or are unreasonably delayed, the Government shall prepare an estimate of constructing the design submitted and such estimate shall be used in lieu of bids or proposals to determine compliance with the funding limitation. (c) (c) The estimated construction contract price for the project described in this contract is $______.
52.249-5 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Educational and Other Nonprofit Institutions). (a) (a) The Government may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or, from time to time, in part if the Contracting Officer determines that a termination is in the Government’s interest. The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a Notice of Termination specifying the extent of termination and the effective date. (b) (b) After receipt of a Notice of Termination and except as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall immediately proceed with the following obligations: (c) (c) The Contractor shall submit complete termination inventory schedules no later than 120 days from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 120-day period. (d) (d) After termination, the Contractor shall submit a final termination settlement proposal to the Contracting Officer in the form and with the certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall submit the proposal promptly but no later than 1 year from the effective date of termination unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 1-year period. If the Contractor fails to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined. (e) (e) Subject to paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer may agree upon the whole or any part of the amount to be paid because of the termination. This amount may include reasonable cancellation charges incurred by the Contractor and any reasonable loss on outstanding commitments for personal services that the Contractor is unable to cancel; provided, that the Contractor exercised reasonable diligence in diverting such commitments to other operations. The contract shall be amended and the Contractor paid the agreed amount. (f) (f) The cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.3 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Contracts with Educational Institutions (defined as institutions of higher education in the OMB Uniform Guidance in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, and 20 U.S.C. 1001), as in effect on the date of the contract, shall govern all costs claimed, agreed to, or determined under this clause; however, if the Contractor is not an educational institution and is a nonprofit organization (as defined in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200), the cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.7 of the FAR, Contracts with Nonprofit Organizations, shall apply; unless the Contractor is a nonprofit institution listed in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, appendix VIII, as exempted from the cost principles in subpart E, in which case the cost principles at FAR 31.2 for commercial organizations shall apply to such contractor. (g) (g) The Government may, under the terms and conditions it prescribes, make partial payments against costs incurred by the Contractor for the terminated portion of this contract, if the Contracting Officer believes the total of these payments will not exceed the amount to which the Contractor will be entitled. (h) (h) The Contractor has the right of appeal as provided under the Disputes clause, except that if the Contractor failed to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time provided in paragraph (d) of this clause and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal.
48.104-2 Sharing acquisition savings. (a) (a) Supply or service contracts. (b) (b) Construction contracts. Sharing on construction contracts applies only to savings on the instant contract and to collateral savings. The Government’s share of savings is determined by subtracting Government costs from instant contract savings and multiplying the result by (1)45 percent for fixed-price contracts or (2)75 percent for cost-reimbursement contracts. Value engineering sharing does not apply to incentive construction contracts.
52.222-21 Prohibition of Segregated Facilities. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause (b) (b) The Contractor agrees that it does not and will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not and will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location under its control where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor agrees that a breach of this clause is a violation of the Equal Opportunity clause in this contract. (c) (c) The Contractor shall include this clause in every subcontract and purchase order that is subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this contract.
11.102 Standardization program. No subsections found.
Subpart 17.5 - Interagency Acquisitions No subsections found.
15.404-1 Proposal analysis techniques. (a) (a) General. The objective of proposal analysis is to ensure that the final agreed-to price is fair and reasonable. (b) (b) Price analysis. (c) (c) Cost analysis. (d) (d) Cost realism analysis. (e) (e) Technical analysis. (f) (f) Unit prices. (g) (g) Unbalanced pricing. (h) (h) Review and justification of pass-through contracts.
26.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 4.15 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.225-1 Buy American-Supplies (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American, provides a preference for domestic end products for supplies acquired for use in the United States. In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1907, the domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for an end product that is a COTS item (see 12.505(a)(1)), except that for an end product that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only to the iron and steel content of the end product, excluding COTS fasteners. (c) (c) Offerors may obtain from the Contracting Officer a list of foreign articles that the Contracting Officer will treat as domestic for this contract. (d) (d) The Contractor shall deliver only domestic end products except to the extent that it specified delivery of foreign end products in the provision of the solicitation entitled "Buy American Certificate."
22.406-13 Semiannual enforcement reports. No subsections found.
52.227-8 [Reserved] No subsections found.
36.602-5 Short selection process for contracts not to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (a) (a) Selection by the board. The board shall review and evaluate architect-engineer firms in accordance with 36.602-3, except that the selection report shall serve as the final selection list and shall be provided directly to the contracting officer. The report shall serve as an authorization for the contracting officer to commence negotiations in accordance with 36.606. (b) (b) Selection by the chairperson of the board. When the board decides that formal action by the board is not necessary in connection with a particular selection, the following procedures shall be followed:
8.1100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
31.205-27 Organization costs. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, expenditures in connection with (1) planning or executing the organization or reorganization of the corporate structure of a business, including mergers and acquisitions, (2) resisting or planning to resist the reorganization of the corporate structure of a business or a change in the controlling interest in the ownership of a business, and (3) raising capital (net worth plus long-term liabilities), are unallowable. Such expenditures include but are not limited to incorporation fees and costs of attorneys, accountants, brokers, promoters and organizers, management consultants and investment counselors, whether or not employees of the contractor. Unallowable "reorganization" costs include the cost of any change in the contractor’s financial structure, excluding administrative costs of short-term borrowings for working capital, resulting in alterations in the rights and interests of security holders, whether or not additional capital is raised. (b) (b) The cost of activities primarily intended to provide compensation will not be considered organizational costs subject to this subsection, but will be governed by 31.205-6. These activities include acquiring stock for-
36.501 Performance of work by the contractor. (a) (a) To assure adequate interest in and supervision of all work involved in larger projects, the contractor shall be required to perform a significant part of the contract work with its own forces. The contract shall express this requirement in terms of a percentage that reflects the minimum amount of work the contractor must perform with its own forces. This percentage is (1) as high as the contracting officer considers appropriate for the project, consistent with customary or necessary specialty subcontracting and the complexity and magnitude of the work, and (2) ordinarily not less than 12 percent unless a greater percentage is required by law or agency regulation. Specialties such as plumbing, heating, and electrical work are usually subcontracted, and should not normally be considered in establishing the amount of work required to be performed by the contractor. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.236-1, Performance of Work by the Contractor, in solicitations and contracts, except those awarded pursuant to subparts  19.5, 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15 when a fixed-price construction contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed $1.5 million. The contracting officer may insert the clause in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to be $1.5 million or less.
22.1705 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) (b) (b) Insert the provision at 52.222-56, Certification Regarding Trafficking in Persons Compliance Plan, in solicitations if
49.603-7 No-cost settlement agreement-partial termination. No subsections found.
42.703 General. No subsections found.
17.204 Contracts. (a) (a) The contract shall specify limits on the purchase of additional supplies or services, or the overall duration of the term of the contract, including any extension. (b) (b) The contract shall state the period within which the option may be exercised. (c) (c) The period shall be set so as to provide the contractor adequate lead time to ensure continuous production. (d) (d) The period may extend beyond the contract completion date for service contracts. This is necessary for situations when exercise of the option would result in the obligation of funds that are not available in the fiscal year in which the contract would otherwise be completed. (e) (e) Unless otherwise approved in accordance with agency procedures, the total of the basic and option periods shall not exceed 5 years in the case of services, and the total of the basic and option quantities shall not exceed the requirement for 5 years in the case of supplies. These limitations do not apply to information technology contracts. However, statutes applicable to various classes of contracts, for example, the Service Contract Labor Standards statute (see 22.1002-1), may place additional restrictions on the length of contracts. (f) (f) Contracts may express options for increased quantities of supplies or services in terms of- (g) (g) Contracts may express extensions of the term of the contract as an amended completion date or as additional time for performance; e.g., days, weeks, or months.
32.006 Reduction or suspension of contract payments upon finding of fraud. No subsections found.
53.213 Simplified acquisition procedures (SF’s 18, 30, 44, 1165, 1449, and OF’s 336, 347, and 348). (a) (a) SF 18 (Rev.6/95), Request for Quotations, or SF 1449 (Rev. Nov 2021), Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Products and Commercial Services. SF 18 is prescribed for use in obtaining price, cost, delivery, and related information from suppliers as specified in 13.307(b). SF 1449, as prescribed in 53.212, or other agency forms/automated formats, may also be used to obtain price, cost, delivery, and related information from suppliers as specified in 13.307(b). (b) (b) SF 30 (Rev.11/2016), Amendment of Solicitation/ Modification of Contract. SF 30, prescribed in 53.243, may be used for modifying purchase orders, as specified in 13.307(c)(3). (c) (c) SF 44 (Rev.10/83), Purchase Order Invoice Voucher. SF 44 is prescribed for use in simplified acquisition procedures, as specified in 13.306. (d) (d) SF 1165 (6/83Ed.), Receipt for Cash-Subvoucher. SF 1165 (GAO) may be used for imprest fund purchases, as specified in 13.307(e). (e) (e) OF 336 (4/86Ed.), Continuation Sheet. OF 336, prescribed in 53.214(h), may be used as a continuation sheet in solicitations, as specified in 13.307(c)(1). (f) (f) SF 1449 (Rev. Nov 2021) Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Products and Commercial Services prescribed in 53.212, OF 347 (Rev.2/2012), Order for Supplies or Services, and OF 348 (Rev.4/06), Order for Supplies or Services-Schedule Continuation. SF 1449, OF’s 347 and 348 (or approved agency forms/automated formats) may be used as follows:
28.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
25.902 Procedures. No subsections found.
29.402-1 Foreign fixed-price contracts. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.229-6, Taxes-Foreign Fixed-Price Contracts, in solicitations and contracts expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold when a fixed-price contract is contemplated and the contract is to be performed wholly or partly in a foreign country, unless it is contemplated that the contract will be with a foreign government. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.229-7, Taxes-Fixed-Price Contracts with Foreign Governments, in solicitations and contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold when a fixed-price contract with a foreign government is contemplated.
1.105 Issuance. No subsections found.
50.103-5 Processing cases. (a) (a) In response to a contractor request made in accordance with 50.103-3(a), the contracting officer or an authorized representative shall make a thorough investigation to establish the facts necessary to decide a given case. Facts and evidence, including signed statements of material facts within the knowledge of individuals when documentary evidence is lacking, and audits if considered necessary to establish financial or cost facts, shall be obtained from contractor and Government personnel. (b) (b) When a case involves matters of interest to more than one Government agency, the interested agencies should maintain liaison with each other to determine whether joint action should be taken. (c) (c) When additional funds are required from another agency, the contracting agency may not approve adjustment requests before receiving advice that the funds will be available. The request for this advice shall give the contractor’s name, the contract number, the amount of proposed relief, a brief description of the contract, and the accounting classification or fund citation. If the other agency makes additional funds available, the agency considering the adjustment request shall be solely responsible for any action taken on the request. (d) (d) When essentiality to the national defense is an issue (50.103-2(a)(1)), agencies considering requests for amendment without consideration involving another agency shall obtain advice on the issue from the other agency before making the final decision. When this advice is received, the agency considering the request for amendment without consideration shall be responsible for taking whatever action is appropriate.
9.103 Policy. (a) (a) Purchases shall be made from, and contracts shall be awarded to, responsible prospective contractors only. (b) (b) No purchase or award shall be made unless the contracting officer makes an affirmative determination of responsibility. In the absence of information clearly indicating that the prospective contractor is responsible, the contracting officer shall make a determination of nonresponsibility. If the prospective contractor is a small business concern, the contracting officer shall comply with subpart  19.6, Certificates of Competency and Determinations of Responsibility. (If Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637) applies, see subpart  19.8.) (c) (c) The award of a contract to a supplier based on lowest evaluated price alone can be false economy if there is subsequent default, late deliveries, or other unsatisfactory performance resulting in additional contractual or administrative costs. While it is important that Government purchases be made at the lowest price, this does not require an award to a supplier solely because that supplier submits the lowest offer. A prospective contractor must affirmatively demonstrate its responsibility, including, when necessary, the responsibility of its proposed subcontractors.
Subpart 53.1 - General No subsections found.
14.404-5 All or none qualifications. No subsections found.
Subpart 42.3 - Contract Administration Office Functions No subsections found.
49.503 Termination for convenience of the Government and default. (a) (a) Cost-reimbursement contracts- (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.249-7, Termination (Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer), in solicitations and contracts for architect-engineer services, when a fixed-price contract is contemplated. (c) (c) Subcontracts. The prime contractor may find the clause at 52.249-6, Termination (Cost-Reimbursement), suitable for use in cost-reimbursement subcontracts; provided, that the relationship between the contractor and subcontractor is clearly indicated. Inapplicable conditions (e.g., paragraphs (e), (j) and (n)) should be deleted and the period for submitting the subcontractor’s termination settlement proposal should be reduced (e.g.,6 months).
5.402 General public. No subsections found.
52.243-1 Changes-Fixed-Price. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following: (b) (b) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price, the delivery schedule, or both, and shall modify the contract. (c) (c) The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract. (d) (d) If the Contractor’s proposal includes the cost of property made obsolete or excess by the change, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of the disposition of the property. (e) (e) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.
52.252-3 Alterations in Solicitation. No subsections found.
23.000 Scope. No subsections found.
Subpart 4.3 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
46.800 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Occurs after acceptance and (b) (b) Results from defects or deficiencies in the supplies delivered or services performed.
16.603 Letter contracts. No subsections found.
7.203  Solicitation provision. (a) (a) The Government already has the data; (b) (b) The data is otherwise readily available; or (c) (c) It is impracticable for the Government to vary its future requirements.
3.103-2 Evaluating the certification. (a) (a) Evaluation guidelines. (b) (b) Rejection of offers suspected of being collusive.
16.402-3 Delivery incentives. (a) (a) Delivery incentives should be considered when improvement from a required delivery schedule is a significant Government objective. It is important to determine the Government’s primary objectives in a given contract (e.g., earliest possible delivery or earliest quantity production). (b) (b) Incentive arrangements on delivery should specify the application of the reward-penalty structure in the event of Government-caused delays or other delays beyond the control, and without the fault or negligence, of the contractor or subcontractor.
51.104 Furnishing assistance to contractors. (a) (a) Provide initial copies of ordering information and instructions; and (b) (b) When necessary, assist the contractor in preparing and submitting, as appropriate-
Subpart 22.18 - Employment Eligibility Verification No subsections found.
47.103-1 General. (a) (a) (b) (b) Under 31 U.S.C. 3726, all agencies are required to establish a prepayment audit program. For details on the establishment of a prepayment audit, see 41 CFR part 102-118. (c) (c) The agency designated in paragraph (a)(3) of the clause at 52.247-67 shall forward original copies of paid freight bills/invoices, bills of lading, passenger coupons, and supporting documents as soon as possible following the end of the month, in one package for postpayment audit to the General Services Administration, Transportation Audit Division (QMCA), Crystal Plaza 4, Room 300, 2200 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202. The specified agency shall include the paid freight bills/invoices, bills of lading, passenger coupons, and supporting documents for first-tier subcontractors under a cost-reimbursement contract. If the inclusion of the paid freight bills/invoices, bills of lading, passenger coupons, and supporting documents for any subcontractor in the shipment is not practicable, the documents may be forwarded to GSA in a separate package. (d) (d) Any original transportation bills or other documents requested by GSA shall be forwarded promptly. The specified agency shall ensure that the name of the contracting agency is stamped or written on the face of the bill before sending it to GSA. (e) (e) A statement prepared in duplicate by the specified agency shall accompany each shipment of transportation documents. GSA will acknowledge receipt of the shipment by signing and returning the copy of the statement. The statement shall show-
52.241-8 Change in Rates or Terms and Conditions of Service for Unregulated Services. (a) (a) This clause applies to the extent that services furnished hereunder are not subject to regulation by a regulatory body. (b) (b) After ___________ [insert date], either party may request a change in rates or terms and conditions of service, unless otherwise provided in this contract. Both parties agree to enter in negotiations concerning such changes upon receipt of a written request detailing the proposed changes and specifying the reasons for the proposed changes. (c) (c) The effective date of any change shall be as agreed to by the parties. The Contractor agrees that throughout the life of this contract the rates so negotiated will not be in excess of published and unpublished rates charged to any other customer of the same class under similar terms and conditions of use and service. (d) (d) The failure of the parties to agree upon any change after a reasonable period of time shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause of this contract. (e) (e) Any changes to rates, terms, or conditions as a result of such negotiations shall be made a part of this contract by the issuance of a contract modification.
19.1307 Price evaluation preference for HUBZone small business concerns. (a) (a) The price evaluation preference for HUBZone small business concerns shall be used in acquisitions conducted using full and open competition. The preference shall not be used- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall give offers from HUBZone small business concerns a price evaluation preference by adding a factor of 10 percent to all offers, except- (c) (c) The factor of 10 percent shall be applied on a line item basis or to any group of items on which award may be made. Other evaluation factors, such as transportation costs or rent-free use of Government property, shall be added to the offer to establish the base offer before adding the factor of 10 percent. (d) (d) When the two highest rated offerors are a HUBZone small business concern and a large business, and the evaluated offer of the HUBZone small business concern is equal to the evaluated offer of the large business after considering the price evaluation preference, the contracting officer shall award the contract to the HUBZone small business concern.
52.204-20 Predecessor of Offeror. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision– (b) (b) The Offeror represents that it □ is or □ is not a successor to a predecessor that held a Federal contract or grant within the last three years. (c) (c) If the Offeror has indicated "is" in paragraph (b) of this provision, enter the following information for all predecessors that held a Federal contract or grant within the last three years (if more than one predecessor, list in reverse chronological order):
32.304-5 Assignment of claims under contracts. (a) (a) The agency shall generally require a contractor that is provided a guaranteed loan to execute an assignment of claims under defense production contracts (including any contracts entered into during the term of the guaranteed loan that are eligible for financing under the loan); however, the agency need not require assignment if any of the following conditions are present: (b) (b) The contractor shall also execute an assignment of claims if requested to do so by the guarantor or the financing institution. (c) (c) A subcontract or purchase order issued to a subcontractor shall not be considered eligible for financing under guaranteed loans when the issuer of the subcontract or purchase order reserves-
3.704 Policy. (a) (a) In cases in which there is a final conviction for any violation of 18 U.S.C. 201-224 involving or relating to contracts awarded by an agency, the agency head or designee, shall consider the facts available and, if appropriate, may declare void and rescind contracts, and recover the amounts expended and property transferred by the agency in accordance with the policies and procedures of this subpart. (b) (b) Since a final conviction under 18 U.S.C. 201-224 relating to a contract also may justify the conclusion that the party involved is not presently responsible, the agency should consider initiating debarment proceedings in accordance with subpart  9.4, Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility, if debarment has not been initiated, or is not in effect at the time the final conviction is entered. (c) (c) If there is a final conviction for an offense punishable under 41 U.S.C. 2105, or if the head of the agency, or designee, has determined, based upon a preponderance of the evidence, that the contractor or someone acting for the contractor has engaged in conduct constituting such an offense, then the head of the contracting activity shall consider, in addition to any other penalty prescribed by law or regulation-
17.800 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
37.106 Funding and term of service contracts. (a) (a) When contracts for services are funded by annual appropriations, the term of contracts so funded shall not extend beyond the end of the fiscal year of the appropriation except when authorized by law (see paragraph (b) of this section for certain service contracts, 32.703-2 for contracts conditioned upon availability of funds, and 32.703-3 for contracts crossing fiscal years). (b) (b) The head of an executive agency, except NASA, may enter into a contract, exercise an option, or place an order under a contract for severable services for a period that begins in one fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year if the period of the contract awarded, option exercised, or order placed does not exceed oneyear (10 U.S.C. 3133 and 41 U.S.C. 3902). Funds made available for a fiscal year may be obligated for the total amount of an action entered into under this authority. (c) (c) Agencies with statutory multiyear authority shall consider the use of this authority to encourage and promote economical business operations when acquiring services.
Part 13 - Simplified Acquisition Procedures No subsections found.
42.402 Visits to contractors’ facilities. (a) (a) Government personnel planning to visit a contractor’s facility in connection with one or more Government contracts shall provide the cognizant CAO with the following information, sufficiently in advance to permit the CAO to make necessary arrangements. Such notification is for the purpose of eliminating duplicative reviews, requests, investigations, and audits relating to the contract administration functions in subpart  42.3 delegated to CAO’s and shall, as a minimum, include the following (see also paragraph (b) of this section): (b) (b) If the visit will result in reviewing, auditing, or obtaining any information from the contractor relating to contract administration functions, the prospective visitor shall identify the information in sufficient detail so as to permit the CAO, after consultation with the contractor and the cognizant audit office, to determine whether such information, adequate to fulfill the requirement, has recently been reviewed by or is available within the Government. If so, the CAO will discourage the visit and refer the prospective visitor to the Government office where such information is located. Where the office is the CAO, such information will be immediately forwarded or otherwise made available to the requestor. (c) (c) Visitors shall fully inform the CAO of any agreements reached with the contractor or other results of the visit that may affect the CAO.
22.1404 Department of Labor notices. No subsections found.
18.120 [Reserved] No subsections found.
17.105 Policy. No subsections found.
28.101 Bid guarantees. No subsections found.
46.105 Contractor responsibilities. (a) (a) The contractor is responsible for carrying out its obligations under the contract by- (b) (b) The contractor may be required to provide and maintain an inspection system or program for the control of quality that is acceptable to the Government (see 46.202). (c) (c) The control of quality by the contractor may relate to, but is not limited to- (d) (d) The contractor is responsible for performing all inspections and test required by the contract except those specifically reserved for performance by the Government (see 46.201(c)).
13.402 Conditions for use. (a) (a) Individual purchasing instruments do not exceed $35,000, except that executive agencies may permit higher dollar limitations for specified activities or items on a case-by-case basis. (b) (b) Deliveries of supplies are to occur at locations where there is both a geographical separation and a lack of adequate communications facilities between Government receiving and disbursing activities that will make it impractical to make timely payment based on evidence of Government acceptance. (c) (c) Titleto the supplies passes to the Government- (d) (d) The supplier agrees to replace, repair, or correct supplies not received at destination, damaged in transit, or not conforming to purchase requirements. (e) (e) The purchasing instrument is a firm-fixed-price contract, a purchase order, or a delivery order for supplies. (f) (f) A system is in place to ensure-
36.601-4 Implementation. (a) (a) Contracting officers should consider the following services to be "architect-engineer services" subject to the procedures of this subpart: (b) (b) Contracting officers may award contracts for architect-engineer services to any firm permitted by law to practice the professions of architecture or engineering.
36.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.237-2 Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation. No subsections found.
52.232-38 Submission of Electronic Funds Transfer Information with Offer. No subsections found.
8.605 Exceptions. (a) (a) (b) (b) Public exigency requires immediate delivery or performance; (c) (c) Suitable used or excess supplies are available; (d) (d) The supplies are acquired and used outside the United States; (e) (e) Acquiring listed items totaling $3,500 or less; (f) (f) Acquiring items that FPI offers exclusively on a competitive (non-mandatory) basis, as identified in the FPI Schedule; or (g) (g) Acquiring services.
Subpart 14.4 - Opening of Bids and Award of Contract No subsections found.
11.203 Customer satisfaction. No subsections found.
34.001 Definition. No subsections found.
26.201 Definitions. No subsections found.
42.1502 Policy. (a) (a) General. Past performance evaluations shall be prepared at least annually and at the time the work under a contract or order is completed. Past performance evaluations are required for contracts and orders as specified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, including contracts and orders performed outside the United States. These evaluations are generally for the entity, division, or unit that performed the contract or order. Past performance information shall be entered into CPARS, the Governmentwide evaluation reporting tool for all past performance reports on contracts and orders. Instructions for submitting evaluations into CPARS are available at http://www.cpars.gov/. (b) (b) Contracts. Except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f), and (h) of this section, agencies shall prepare evaluations of contractor performance for each contract (as defined in FAR part  2) that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold and for each order that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold. Agencies are required to prepare an evaluation if a modification to the contract causes the dollar amount to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (c) (c) Orders under multiple-agency contracts. Agencies shall prepare an evaluation of contractor performance for each order that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold that is placed under a Federal Supply Schedule contract or placed under a task-order contract or a delivery-order contract awarded by another agency (i.e., Governmentwide acquisition contract or multi-agency contract). Agencies placing orders under their own multiple-agency contract shall also prepare evaluations for their own orders. This evaluation shall not consider the requirements under paragraph (g) of this section. Agencies are required to prepare an evaluation if a modification to the order causes the dollar amount to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (d) (d) Orders under single-agency contracts. For single-agency task-order and delivery-order contracts, the contracting officer may require performance evaluations for each order in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold when such evaluations would produce more useful past performance information for source selection officials than that contained in the overall contract evaluation (e.g., when the scope of the basic contract is very broad and the nature of individual orders could be significantly different). This evaluation need not consider the requirements under paragraph (g) of this section unless the contracting officer deems it appropriate. (e) (e) Past performance evaluations shall be prepared for each construction contract of $750,000 or more, and for each construction contract terminated for default regardless of contract value. Past performance evaluations may also be prepared for construction contracts below $750,000. (f) (f) Past performance evaluations shall be prepared for each architect-engineer services contract of $35,000 or more, and for each architect-engineer services contract that is terminated for default regardless of contract value. Past performance evaluations may also be prepared for architect-engineer services contracts below $35,000. (g) (g) Past performance evaluations shall include an assessment of the contractor's- (h) (h) Agencies shall not evaluate performance for contracts awarded under subpart  8.7. (i) (i) Agencies shall promptly report other contractor information in accordance with 42.1503(h).
52.237 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 27.2 - Patents and Copyrights No subsections found.
28.308 Self-insurance. (a) (a) When it is anticipated that 50 percent or more of the self-insurance costs to be incurred at a segment of a contractor’s business will be allocable to negotiated Government contracts, and the self-insurance costs at the segment for the contractor’s fiscal year are expected to be $200,000 or more, the contractor shall submit, in writing, information on its proposed self-insurance program to the administrative contracting officer and obtain that official’s approval of the program. The submission shall be by segment or segments of the contractor’s business to which the program applies and shall include- (b) (b) Programs of self-insurance covering a contractor’s insurable risks, including the deductible portion of purchased insurance, may be approved when examination of a program indicates that its application is in the Government’s interest. Agencies shall not approve a program of self-insurance for workers’ compensation in a jurisdiction where workers’ compensation does not completely cover the employer’s liability to employees, unless the contractor- (c) (c) Once the administrative contracting officer has approved a program, the contractor must submit to that official for approval any major proposed changes to the program. Any program approval may be withdrawn if a contracting officer finds that either- (d) (d) To qualify for a self-insurance program, a contractor must demonstrate ability to sustain the potential losses involved. In making the determination, the contracting officer shall consider the following factors: (e) (e) Agencies shall not approve a program of self-insurance for catastrophic risks (e.g., see 50.104-3, Special procedures for unusually hazardous or nuclear risks). Should performance of Government contracts create the risk of catastrophic losses, the Government may, to the extent authorized by law, agree to indemnify the contractor or recognize an appropriate share of premiums for purchased insurance, or both. (f) (f) Self-insurance programs to protect a contractor against the costs of correcting its own defects in materials or workmanship shall not be approved. For these purposes, normal rework estimates and warranty costs will not be considered self-insurance.
4.1704 Contracting officer responsibilities. (a) (a) For other than indefinite-delivery contracts, the contracting officer shall ensure that 52.204-14, Service Reporting Requirement, is included in solicitations, contracts, and orders as prescribed at 4.1705. For indefinite-delivery contracts, the contracting officer who awarded the contract shall ensure that 52.204-15 Service Contract Reporting Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts, is included in solicitations and contracts as prescribed at 4.1705. The contracting officer at the order level shall verify the clause’s inclusion in the contract. (b) (b) If the contractor fails to submit a report in a timely manner, the contracting officer shall exercise appropriate contractual remedies. In addition, the contracting officer shall make the contractor’s failure to comply with the reporting requirements a part of the contractor’s performance information under subpart  42.15.
52.247-36 F.a.s. Vessel, Port of Shipment. (a) (a) The term "f.a.s. vessel, port of shipment," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered alongside the ocean vessel and within reach of its loading tackle at the specified port of shipment. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
52.204-4 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.223-16 [Reserved] No subsections found.
3.1001 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.215-6 Place of Performance. (a) (a) The offeror or respondent, in the performance of any contract resulting from this solicitation, □ intends, □ does not intend [check applicable block] to use one or more plants or facilities located at a different address from the address of the offeror or respondent as indicated in this proposal or response to request for information. (b) (b) If the offeror or respondent checks "intends" in paragraph (a) of this provision, it shall insert in the following spaces the required information:
25.701 Restrictions administered by the Department of the Treasury on acquisitions of supplies or services from prohibited sources. (a) (a) Except as authorized by OFAC, agencies and their contractors and subcontractors must not acquire any supplies or services if any proclamation, Executive order, or statute administered by OFAC, or if OFAC’s implementing regulations at 31 CFR Chapter V, would prohibit such a transaction by a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. (b) (b) Except as authorized by OFAC, most transactions involving Cuba, Iran, and Sudan are prohibited, as are most imports from Burma or North Korea into the United States or its outlying areas. In addition, lists of entities and individuals subject to economic sanctions are included in OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons at https://ofac.treasury.gov/specially-designated-nationals-and-blocked-persons-list-sdn-human-readable-lists. More information about these restrictions, as well as updates, is available in OFAC’s regulations at 31 CFR Chapter V and/or on OFAC’s website at https://ofac.treasury.gov/. (c) (c) Refer questions concerning the restrictions in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section to the-
37.501 Definition. No subsections found.
31.205-44 Training and education costs. (a) (a) Overtime compensation for training and education is unallowable. (b) (b) The cost of salaries for attending undergraduate level classes or part-time graduate level classes during working hours is unallowable, except when unusual circumstances do not permit attendance at such classes outside of regular working hours. (c) (c) Costs of tuition, fees, training materials and textbooks, subsistence, salary, and any other payments in connection with full-time graduate level education are unallowable for any portion of the program that exceeds two school years or the length of the degree program, whichever is less. (d) (d) Grants to educational or training institutions, including the donation of facilities or other properties, scholarships, and fellowships are considered contributions and are unallowable. (e) (e) Training or education costs for other than bona fide employees are unallowable, except that the costs incurred for educating employee dependents (primary and secondary level studies) when the employee is working in a foreign country where suitable public education is not available may be included in overseas differential pay. (f) (f) Contractor contributions to college savings plans for employee dependents are unallowable.
3.303 Reporting suspected antitrust violations. (a) (a) Agencies are required by 41 U.S.C.3707 and 10 U.S.C. 3307 to report to the Attorney General any bids or proposals that evidence a violation of the antitrust laws. These reports are in addition to those required by subpart  9.4. (b) (b) The antitrust laws are intended to ensure that markets operate competitively. Any agreement or mutual understanding among competing firms that restrains the natural operation of market forces is suspect. Paragraph (c) of this section identifies behavior patterns that are often associated with antitrust violations. Activities meeting the descriptions in paragraph (c) are not necessarily improper, but they are sufficiently questionable to warrant notifying the appropriate authorities, in accordance with agency procedures. (c) (c) Practices or events that may evidence violations of the antitrust laws include- (d) (d) Identical bids shall be reported under this section if the agency has some reason to believe that the bids resulted from collusion. (e) (e) For offers from foreign contractors for contracts to be performed outside the United States and its outlying areas, contracting officers may refer suspected collusive offers to the authorities of the foreign government concerned for appropriate action. (f) (f) Agency reports shall be addressed to the- (g) (g) Questions concerning this reporting requirement may be communicated by telephone directly to the Office of the Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division.
22.1906 Contract clause. No subsections found.
42.900 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.247-12 Supervision, Labor, or Materials. No subsections found.
47.204 Single-movement contracts. No subsections found.
3.502-2 Subcontractor kickbacks. (a) (a) Prohibits any person from- (b) (b) Imposes criminal penalties on any person who knowingly and willfully engages in the prohibited conduct addressed in paragraph (a) of this section. (c) (c) Provides for the recovery of civil penalties by the United States from any person who knowingly engages in such prohibited conduct and from any person whose employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee provides, accepts, or charges a kickback. (d) (d) Provides that- (e) (e) Authorizes contracting officers to order that sums withheld under paragraph (d)(2) of this section be paid to the contracting agency, or if the sum has already been offset against the prime contractor, that it be retained by the prime contractor. (f) (f) Requires the prime contractor to notify the contracting officer when the withholding under paragraph (d)(2) of this section has been accomplished unless the amount withheld has been paid to the Government. (g) (g) Requires a prime contractor or subcontractor to report in writing to the inspector general of the contracting agency, the head of the contracting agency if the agency does not have an inspector general, or the Attorney General any possible violation of the Kickbacks statute when the prime contractor or subcontractor has reasonable grounds to believe such violation may have occurred. (h) (h) Provides that, for the purpose of ascertaining whether there has been a violation of the Kickbacks statute with respect to any prime contract, the Government Accountability Office and the inspector general of the contracting agency, or a representative of such contracting agency designated by the head of the agency if the agency does not have an inspector general, shall have access to and may inspect the facilities and audit the books and records, including any electronic data or records, of any prime contractor or subcontractor under a prime contract awarded by such agency. (i) (i) Requires each contracting agency to include in each prime contract, other than for commercial products or commercial services, exceeding $150,000, a requirement that the prime contractor shall– (j) (j) Notwithstanding paragraph (i) of this section, a prime contractor shall cooperate fully with any Federal Government agency investigating a violation of 41 U.S.C. 8702 (see 41 U.S.C. 8703(b)).
52.213 [Reserved] No subsections found.
16.204 Fixed-price incentive contracts. No subsections found.
3.907-3 Procedures for filing complaints. (a) (a) An employee who believes that he or she has been subjected to reprisal prohibited by the Recovery Act, Section 1553 as set forth in 3.907-2, may submit a complaint regarding the reprisal to the Inspector General of the agency that awarded the contract. (b) (b) The complaint shall be signed and shall contain- (c) (c) A contracting officer who receives a complaint of reprisal of the type described in 3.907-2 shall forward it to the Office of Inspector General and to other designated officials in accordance with agency procedures (e.g., agency legal counsel).
23.107-1 Products containing recovered materials. (a) (a) Authorities. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. 6962, as implemented at 40 CFR part 247. (b) (b) EPA Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (CPG) Program. Under RCRA, EPA must designate items that are or can be made with recovered materials and must also recommend practices to assist procuring agencies in meeting their obligations. (c) (c) Applicability. (d) (d) Agency affirmative procurement program. An agency shall establish an affirmative procurement program for EPA-designated items if the agency's purchases of EPA-designated items exceed the threshold set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (e) (e) Procedures. The following procedures apply when the thresholds set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are exceeded. (f) (f) Resources.
47.207-10 Discrepancies incident to shipments. No subsections found.
32.503-10 Establishing alternate liquidation rates. (a) (a) The contracting officer must ensure that the liquidation rate is- (b) (b) The minimum liquidation rate is the expected progress payments divided by the contract price.Each of these factors is discussed below:
49.104 Duties of prime contractor after receipt of notice of termination. (a) (a) Stop work immediately on the terminated portion of the contract and stop placing subcontracts thereunder; (b) (b) Terminate all subcontracts related to the terminated portion of the prime contract; (c) (c) Immediately advise the TCO of any special circumstances precluding the stoppage of work; (d) (d) Perform the continued portion of the contract and submit promptly any request for an equitable adjustment of price for the continued portion, supported by evidence of any increase in the cost, if the termination is partial; (e) (e) Take necessary or directed action to protect and preserve property in the contractor’s possession in which the Government has or may acquire an interest and, as directed by the TCO, deliver the property to the Government; (f) (f) Promptly notify the TCO in writing of any legal proceedings growing out of any subcontract or other commitment related to the terminated portion of the contract; (g) (g) Settle outstanding liabilities and proposals arising out of termination of subcontracts, obtaining any approvals or ratifications required by the TCO; (h) (h) Promptly submit the contractor’s own settlement proposal, supported by appropriate schedules; and (i) (i) Dispose of termination inventory, as directed or authorized by the TCO.
14.405 Minor informalities or irregularities in bids. (a) (a) Return the number of copies of signed bids required by the invitation; (b) (b) Furnish required information concerning the number of its employees; (c) (c) Sign its bid, but only if- (d) (d) Acknowledge receipt of an amendment to an invitation for bids, but only if- (e) (e) Execute the representations with respect to Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Programs, as set forth in the clauses at 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports, and 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance.
8.406-6 Disputes. (a) (a) Disputes pertaining to the performance of orders under a schedule contract. (b) (b) Disputes pertaining to the terms and conditions of schedule contracts. The ordering activity contracting officer shall refer all disputes that relate to the contract terms and conditions to the schedule contracting officer for resolution under the Disputes clause of the contract and notify the schedule contractor of the referral. (c) (c) Appeals. Contractors may appeal final decisions to either the Board of Contract Appeals servicing the agency that issued the final decision or the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. (d) (d) Alternative dispute resolution. The contracting officer should use the alternative dispute resolution (ADR) procedures, to the maximum extent practicable (see 33.204 and 33.214).
28.311 Solicitation provision and contract clause on liability insurance under cost-reimbursement contracts. No subsections found.
Subpart 19.6 - Certificates of Competency and Determinations of Responsibility No subsections found.
41.102 Applicability. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this part applies to the acquisition of utility services for the Government, including connection charges and termination liabilities. (b) (b) This part does not apply to-
52.247-6 Financial Statement. No subsections found.
Subpart 46.4 - Government Contract Quality Assurance No subsections found.
32.503-4 Approval of progress payment requests. (a) (a) When the reliability of the contractor and the adequacy of the contractor’s accounting system and controls have been established (see 32.503-3 of this section) the ACO may, in approving any particular progress payment request (including initial requests on new contracts), rely upon that accounting system and upon the contractor’s certification, without requiring audit or review of the request before payment. (b) (b) The ACO should not routinely ask for audits of progress payment requests. However, when there is reason to- (c) (c) When there is reason to doubt the amount of a progress payment request, only the doubtful amount should be withheld, subject to later adjustment after review or audit; any clearly proper and due amounts should be paid without awaiting resolution of the differences.
52.222-42 Statement of Equivalent	Rates for Federal Hires. No subsections found.
22.406-5 Subcontracts. No subsections found.
46.315 Certificate of conformance. No subsections found.
52.232-21 [Reserved] No subsections found.
1.502 Unsolicited proposed revisions. No subsections found.
Part 37 - Service Contracting No subsections found.
9.504 Contracting officer responsibilities. (a) (a) Using the general rules, procedures, and examples in this subpart, contracting officers shall analyze planned acquisitions in order to- (b) (b) Contracting officers should obtain the advice of counsel and the assistance of appropriate technical specialists in evaluating potential conflicts and in developing any necessary solicitation provisions and contract clauses (see 9.506). (c) (c) Before issuing a solicitation for a contract that may involve a significant potential conflict, the contracting officer shall recommend to the head of the contracting activity a course of action for resolving the conflict (see 9.506). (d) (d) In fulfilling their responsibilities for identifying and resolving potential conflicts, contracting officers should avoid creating unnecessary delays, burdensome information requirements, and excessive documentation. The contracting officer’s judgment need be formally documented only when a substantive issue concerning potential organizational conflict of interest exists. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall award the contract to the apparent successful offeror unless a conflict of interest is determined to exist that cannot be avoided or mitigated. Before determining to withhold award based on conflict of interest considerations, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor, provide the reasons therefor, and allow the contractor a reasonable opportunity to respond. If the contracting officer finds that it is in the best interest of the United States to award the contract notwithstanding a conflict of interest, a request for waiver shall be submitted in accordance with 9.503. The waiver request and decision shall be included in the contract file.
16.205-2 Application. (a) (a) The initial period should be the longest period for which it is possible to negotiate a fair and reasonable firm fixed price. Each subsequent pricing period should be at least 12 months. (b) (b) The contract may provide for a ceiling price based on evaluation of the uncertainties involved in performance and their possible cost impact. This ceiling price should provide for assumption of a reasonable proportion of the risk by the contractor and, once established, may be adjusted only by operation of contract clauses providing for equitable adjustment or other revision of the contract price under stated circumstances.
18.104 Unusual and compelling urgency. No subsections found.
52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, Proposed for Debarment, or Voluntarily Excluded. (a) (a) Definition. (b) (b) The Government suspends or debars Contractors to protect the Government’s interests. Other than a subcontract for a commercially available off-the-shelf item, the Contractor shall not enter into any subcontract, in excess of the threshold specified in FAR 9.405-2(b) on the date of subcontract award, with a Contractor that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by any executive agency unless there is a compelling reason to do so. (c) (c) The Contractor shall require each proposed subcontractor whose subcontract will exceed the threshold specified in FAR 9.405-2(b) on the date of subcontract award, other than a subcontractor providing a commercially available off-the-shelf item, to disclose to the Contractor, in writing, whether as of the time of award of the subcontract, the subcontractor, or its principals, is or is not debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded, by the Federal Government. (d) (d) A corporate officer or a designee of the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, before entering into a subcontract with a party (other than a subcontractor providing a commercially available off-the-shelf item) that is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded (see FAR 9.404 for information on the System for Award Management (SAM) Exclusions). The notice must include the following: (e) (e) Subcontracts. Unless this is a contract for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services, the Contractor shall include the requirements of this clause, including this paragraph (e) (appropriately modified for the identification of the parties), in each subcontract that—
22.301 Statutory requirement. No subsections found.
52.203-19 Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or Statements. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) The Contractor shall not require its employees or subcontractors to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of a Government contract to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information (e.g., agency Office of the Inspector General). (c) (c) The Contractor shall notify current employees and subcontractors that prohibitions and restrictions of any preexisting internal confidentiality agreements or statements covered by this clause, to the extent that such prohibitions and restrictions are inconsistent with the prohibitions of this clause, are no longer in effect. (d) (d) The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this clause does not contravene requirements applicable to Standard Form 312 (Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement), Form 4414 (Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement), or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified information. (e) (e) In accordance with section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015, (Pub. L. 113-235), and its successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions) use of funds appropriated (or otherwise made available) is prohibited, if the Government determines that the Contractor is not in compliance with the provisions of this clause. (f) (f) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in subcontracts under such contracts.
30.101 Cost Accounting Standards. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. chapter 15, Cost Accounting Standards, requires certain contractors and subcontractors to comply with Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) and to disclose in writing and follow consistently their cost accounting practices. (b) (b) Contracts that refer to this part  30 for the purpose of applying the policies, procedures, standards and regulations promulgated by the CASB pursuant to 41 U.S.C. chapter 15, shall be deemed to refer to the CAS, and any other regulations promulgated by the CASB (see 48 CFR Chapter 99), all of which are hereby incorporated in this part  30.
52.211-1 Availability of Specifications Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29. (a) (a) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101–29, and copies of Federal specifications, standards, and product descriptions can be downloaded from the ASSIST website at https://assist.dla.mil. (b) (b) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a copy of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained from the ASSIST website identified in paragraph (a) of this provision.
Subpart 32.7 - Contract Funding No subsections found.
5.404-2 Announcements of long-range acquisition estimates. No subsections found.
Subpart 23.5 - Greenhouse Gas Emissions No subsections found.
4.1303 Contract clause. No subsections found.
4.703 Policy. (a) (a) Except as stated in 4.703(b), contractors shall make available	records, which includes books, documents, accounting procedures and	practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of whether such	items are in written form, in the form of computer data, or in any other	form, and other supporting evidence to satisfy contract negotiation,	administration, and audit requirements of the contracting agencies and the	Comptroller General for- (b) (b) Contractors shall make	available the foregoing records and supporting evidence for a longer period	of time than is required in 4.703(a)	if- (c) (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude a contractor from duplicating or storing original records in electronic form unless they contain significant information not shown on the record copy. Original records need not be maintained or produced in an audit if the contractor or subcontractor provides photographic or electronic images of the original records and meets the following requirements: (d) (d) If the information described in paragraph (a) of this section is maintained on a computer, contractors shall retain the computer data on a reliable medium for the time periods prescribed. Contractors may transfer computer data in machine readable form from one reliable computer medium to another. Contractors’ computer data retention and transfer procedures shall maintain the integrity, reliability, and security of the original computer data. Contractors shall also retain an audit trail describing the data transfer. For the record retention time periods prescribed, contractors shall not destroy, discard, delete, or write over such computer data.
15.303 Responsibilities. (a) (a) Agency heads are responsible for source selection. The contracting officer is designated as the source selection authority, unless the agency head appoints another individual for a particular acquisition or group of acquisitions. (b) (b) The source selection authority shall- (c) (c) The contracting officer shall-
49.109-4 No-cost settlement. (a) (a) The contractor has not incurred costs for the terminated portion of the contract or (b) (b) The contractor is willing to waive the costs incurred and (c) (c) No amounts are due the Government under the contract.
30.201-2 Types of CAS coverage. No subsections found.
42.1105 Assignment of criticality designator. No subsections found.
Subpart 9.1 - Responsible Prospective Contractors No subsections found.
52.222-7 Withholding of Funds. No subsections found.
44.303 Extent of review. (a) (a) The results of market research accomplished; (b) (b) The degree of price competition obtained; (c) (c) Pricing policies and techniques, including methods of obtaining certified cost or pricing data, and data other than certified cost or pricing data; (d) (d) Methods of evaluating subcontractor responsibility, including the contractor’s use of the System for Award Management Exclusions (see 9.404) and, if the contractor has subcontracts with parties on the Exclusions list, the documentation, systems, and procedures the contractor has established to protect the Government’s interests (see 9.405-2); (e) (e) Treatment accorded affiliates and other concerns having close working arrangements with the contractor; (f) (f) Policies and procedures pertaining to small business concerns, including small disadvantaged, women-owned, veteran-owned, HUBZone, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns; (g) (g) Planning, award, and postaward management of major subcontract programs; (h) (h) Compliance with Cost Accounting Standards in awarding subcontracts; (i) (i) Appropriateness of types of contracts used (see 16.103); (j) (j) Management control systems, including internal audit procedures, to administer progress payments to subcontractors; and (k) (k) Implementation of higher-level quality standards.
19.602 Procedures. No subsections found.
11.604 	Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall insert the provision at 52.211-14, Notice of Priority Rating for National Defense, Emergency Preparedness, and Energy Program Use, in solicitations when the contract to be awarded will be a rated order. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall insert the clause at 52.211-15, Defense Priority and Allocation Requirements, in contracts that are rated orders.
36.207 Pricing fixed-price construction contracts. (a) (a) Generally, firm-fixed-price contracts shall be used to acquire construction. They may be priced- (b) (b) Lump-sum pricing shall be used in preference to unit pricing except when- (c) (c) Fixed-price contracts with economic price adjustment may be used if such a provision is customary in contracts for the type of work being acquired, or when omission of an adjustment provision would preclude a significant number of firms from submitting offers or would result in offerors including unwarranted contingencies in proposed prices.
52.215-17 Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money. No subsections found.
46.502 Responsibility for acceptance. No subsections found.
52.229-12 Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) This clause applies only to foreign persons. It implements 26 U.S.C. 5000C and its implementing regulations at 26 CFR 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-7. (c) (c) (d) (d) The Government will withhold a full 2 percent of each payment unless the Contractor claims an exemption. If the Contractor enters a ratio in Line 12 of the IRS Form W-14, the result of Line 11 divided by Line 10, the Government will withhold from each payment an amount equal to 2 percent multiplied by the contract ratio. If the Contractor marks box 9 of the IRS Form W-14 (rather than completes Lines 10 through 12), the Contractor must identify and enter the specific exempt and nonexempt amounts in Line 15 of the IRS Form W-14; the Government will then withhold 2 percent only from the nonexempt amount. See the IRS Form W-14 and its instructions. (e) (e) Exemptions from the withholding under this clause are described at 26 CFR 1.5000C-1(d)(5) through (7). Any exemption claimed and self-certified on the IRS Form W-14 is subject to audit by the IRS. Any disputes regarding the imposition and collection of the 26 U.S.C. 5000C tax are adjudicated by the IRS as the 26 U.S.C. 5000C tax is a tax matter, not a contract issue. (f) (f) Taxes imposed under 26 U.S.C. 5000C may not be— (g) (g) A taxpayer may, for a fee, seek advice from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as to the proper tax treatment of a transaction. This is called a private letter ruling. Also, the IRS may publish a revenue ruling, which is an official interpretation by the IRS of the Internal Revenue Code, related statutes, tax treaties, and regulations. A revenue ruling is the conclusion of the IRS on how the law is applied to a specific set of facts. For questions relating to the interpretation of the IRS regulations go to https://www.irs.gov/help/tax-law-questions.
13.005 List of laws inapplicable to contracts and subcontracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. (a) (a) The following laws are inapplicable to all contracts and subcontracts (if otherwise applicable to subcontracts) at or below the simplified acquisition threshold pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 1905: (b) (b) The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council (FAR Council) will include any law enacted after October 13, 1994, that sets forth policies, procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the acquisition of property or services, on the list set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The FAR Council may make exceptions when it determines in writing that it is in the best interest of the Government that the enactment should apply to contracts or subcontracts not greater than the simplified acquisition threshold. (c) (c) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to laws that- (d) (d) Any individual may petition the Administrator, Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP), to include any applicable provision of law not included on the list set forth in paragraph (a) of this section unless the FAR Council has already determined in writing that the law is applicable. The Administrator, OFPP, will include the law on the list in paragraph (a) of this section unless the FAR Council makes a determination that it is applicable within 60 days of receiving the petition.
Foreword No subsections found.
32.700 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
14.212 Economic purchase quantities (supplies). No subsections found.
50.205 Procedures. No subsections found.
22.1003 Applicability. No subsections found.
16.501-2 General. (a) (a) There are three types of indefinite-delivery contracts: definite-quantity contracts, requirements contracts, and indefinite-quantity contracts. The appropriate type of indefinite-delivery contract may be used to acquire supplies and/or services when the exact times and/or exact quantities of future deliveries are not known at the time of contract award. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3401 and 41 U.S.C. 4101, requirements contracts and indefinite-quantity contracts are also known as delivery-order contracts or task-order contracts. (b) (b) The various types of indefinite-delivery contracts offer the following advantages: (c) (c) Indefinite-delivery contracts may provide for any appropriate cost or pricing arrangement under part  16. Cost or pricing arrangements that provide for an estimated quantity of supplies or services (e.g., estimated number of labor hours) must comply with the appropriate procedures of this subpart.
Subchapter H - Clauses and Forms No subsections found.
6.102 Use of competitive procedures. (a) (a) Sealed bids. (See 6.401(a).) (b) (b) Competitive proposals. (See 6.401(b).) If sealed bids are not appropriate under paragraph (a) of this section, contracting officers shall request competitive proposals or use the other competitive procedures under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. (c) (c) Combination of competitive procedures. If sealed bids are not appropriate, contracting officers may use any combination of competitive procedures (e.g., two-step sealed bidding). (d) (d) Other competitive procedures.
17.502 Procedures. No subsections found.
53.237 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.112-2 Final payment. (a) (a) Negotiated settlement. After execution of a settlement agreement, the contractor shall submit a voucher or invoice showing the amount agreed upon, less any portion previously paid. The TCO shall attach a copy of the settlement agreement to the voucher or invoice and forward the documents to the disbursing officer for payment. (b) (b) Settlement by determination. If the settlement is by determination and- (c) (c) Construction contracts. In the case of construction contracts, before forwarding the final payment voucher, the contracting officer shall ascertain whether there are any outstanding labor violations. If so, the contracting officer shall determine the amount to be withheld from the final payment (see subpart  22.4). (d) (d) Interest. The Government shall not pay interest on the amount due under a settlement agreement or a settlement by determination. The Government may, however, pay interest on a successful contractor appeal from a contracting officer’s determination under the Disputes clause at 52.233-1.
Subpart 45.5 - Support Government Property Administration No subsections found.
31.201-6 Accounting for unallowable costs. (a) (a) Costs that are expressly unallowable or mutually agreed to be unallowable, including mutually agreed to be unallowable directly associated costs, shall be identified and excluded from any billing, claim, or proposal applicable to a Government contract. A directly associated cost is any cost that is generated solely as a result of incurring another cost, and that would not have been incurred had the other cost not been incurred. When an unallowable cost is incurred, its directly associated costs are also unallowable. (b) (b) Costs that specifically become designated as unallowable or as unallowable directly associated costs of unallowable costs as a result of a written decision furnished by a contracting officer shall be identified if included in or used in computing any billing, claim, or proposal applicable to a Government contract. This identification requirement applies also to any costs incurred for the same purpose under like circumstances as the costs specifically identified as unallowable under either this paragraph or paragraph (a) of this subsection. (c) (c) (d) (d) If a directly associated cost is included in a cost pool that is allocated over a base that includes the unallowable cost with which it is associated, the directly associated cost shall remain in the cost pool. Since the unallowable costs will attract their allocable share of costs from the cost pool, no further action is required to assure disallowance of the directly associated costs. In all other cases, the directly associated costs, if material in amount, must be purged from the cost pool as unallowable costs. (e) (e)
35.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
27.201 Patent and copyright infringement liability. No subsections found.
Subpart 29.1 - General No subsections found.
1.603 Selection, appointment, and termination of appointment for contracting officers. No subsections found.
50.104-3 Special procedures for unusually hazardous or nuclear risks. (a) (a) Indemnification requests. (b) (b) Action on indemnification requests.
16.206-3 Limitations. (a) (a) The contract is for research and development and the estimated cost is the simplified acquisition threshold or less; (b) (b) The contractor’s accounting system is adequate for price redetermination; (c) (c) There is reasonable assurance that the price redetermination will take place promptly at the specified time; and (d) (d) The head of the contracting activity (or a higher-level official, if required by agency procedures) approves its use in writing.
18.205 Resources. (a) (a) National Response Framework. The National Response Framework (NRF) is a guide to how the Nation conducts all-hazards response. This key document establishes a comprehensive, national, all-hazards approach to domestic incident response. The Framework identifies the key response principles, roles and structures that organize national response. It describes how communities, States, the Federal Government, the private-sector, and nongovernmental partners apply these principles for a coordinated, effective national response. It also describes special circumstances where the Federal Government exercises a larger role, including incidents where Federal interests are involved and catastrophic incidents where a State would require significant support. The NRF is available at https://www.fema.gov/media-library/assets/documents/117791. (b) (b) OFPP Guidelines. The Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) "Emergency Acquisitions Guide" is available at https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/legacy_drupal_files/omb/assets/procurement_guides/emergency_acquisitions_guide.pdf.
9.104-3 Application of standards. (a) (a) Ability to obtain resources. Except to the extent that a prospective contractor has sufficient resources or proposes to perform the contract by subcontracting, the contracting officer shall require acceptable evidence of the prospective contractor’s ability to obtain required resources (see 9.104-1(a), (e), and (f)). Acceptable evidence normally consists of a commitment or explicit arrangement, that will be in existence at the time of contract award, to rent, purchase, or otherwise acquire the needed facilities, equipment, other resources, or personnel. Consideration of a prime contractor’s compliance with limitations on subcontracting shall take into account the time period covered by the contract base period or quantities plus option periods or quantities, if such options are considered when evaluating offers for award. (b) (b) Satisfactory performance record. A prospective contractor that is or recently has been seriously deficient in contract performance shall be presumed to be nonresponsible, unless the contracting officer determines that the circumstances were properly beyond the contractor’s control, or that the contractor has taken appropriate corrective action. Past failure to apply sufficient tenacity and perseverance to perform acceptably is strong evidence of nonresponsibility. Failure to meet the quality requirements of the contract is a significant factor to consider in determining satisfactory performance. The contracting officer shall consider the number of contracts involved and the extent of deficient performance in each contract when making this determination. If the pending contract requires a subcontracting plan pursuant to subpart  19.7, The Small Business Subcontracting Program, the contracting officer shall also consider the prospective contractor’s compliance with subcontracting plans under recent contracts. (c) (c) (d) (d)
52.222-38 Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements. No subsections found.
52.246-18 Warranty of Supplies of a Complex Nature. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Contractor’s obligations. (c) (c) Remedies available to the Government.
1.102-2 Performance standards. (a) (a) Satisfy the customer in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness of the delivered product or service. (b) (b) Minimize administrative operating costs. (c) (c) Conduct business with integrity, fairness, and openness. (d) (d) Fulfill public policy objectives. The System must support the attainment of public policy goals adopted by the Congress and the President. In attaining these goals, and in its overall operations, the process shall ensure the efficient use of public resources.
52.219-20 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.228-3 Workers’ Compensation Insurance (Defense Base Act). (a) (a) The Contractor shall (b) (b) For additional information on the Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act requirements see http://www.dol.gov/owcp/dlhwc/lsdba.htm. (c) (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts to which the Defense Base Act applies.
Subpart 3.5 - Other Improper Business Practices No subsections found.
52.247-55 F.o.b. Point for Delivery of Government-Furnished Property. (a) (a) Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, the Government will deliver any Government-furnished property for use within the contiguous United States or Canada to a point specified by the Contractor in the offer. If the Government makes delivery by railroad, the f.o.b. point will be private siding, Contractor’s plant. If the Contractor’s plant is not served by rail, the f.o.b. point will be railroad cars in the same or nearest city having rail service. The Government may choose the mode of transportation and the carriers and will bear the cost of all line-haul transportation to the specified destination. (b) (b) If the destination of the Government-furnished property is a Contractor’s plant located outside the contiguous United States or Canada, the f.o.b. point for Government delivery of Government-furnished property will be a Contractor-specified location in the contiguous United States. If the Contractor fails to name a point, the Government will select as the f.o.b. point the port city in the contiguous United States nearest to the Government-furnished property that has regular commercial water transportation services to the offshore port nearest the Contractor’s plant. (c) (c) Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer or provided in the contract, the Contractor shall return all Government-furnished equipment, supplies, and property, including all property not returned in the form of acceptable end items, to the point at which the Government property was originally furnished to the Contractor under the contract. Notwithstanding the fact that the Government may have furnished the property at the Contractor’s plant, the Contracting Officer may direct the Contractor to deliver the Government property being returned to, and load, block, and brace it in, railway cars in the city in which the Contractor’s plant is located, or, if the Contractor’s city is not served by rail service, in the nearest city having rail service. Unless otherwise specified in the contract, all property shall be packed in containers conforming with the rules of common carrier published tariffs so as to be free of penalty charges by the carrier designated for shipment by the Government.
Subpart 3.11 - Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest for Contractor Employees Performing Acquisition Functions No subsections found.
52.239-1 Privacy or Security Safeguards. (a) (a) The Contractor shall not publish or disclose in any manner, without the Contracting Officer’s written consent, the details of any safeguards either designed or developed by the Contractor under this contract or otherwise provided by the Government. (b) (b) To the extent required to carry out a program of inspection to safeguard against threats and hazards to the security, integrity, and confidentiality of Government data, the Contractor shall afford the Government access to the Contractor’s facilities, installations, technical capabilities, operations, documentation, records, and databases. (c) (c) If new or unanticipated threats or hazards are discovered by either the Government or the Contractor, or if existing safeguards have ceased to function, the discoverer shall immediately bring the situation to the attention of the other party.
52.225-25 Prohibition on Contracting With Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran—Representation and Certifications. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision- (b) (b) The offeror shall e-mail questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov. (c) (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this provision or if a waiver has been granted in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 25.703-4, by submission of its offer, the offeror— (d) (d) Exception for trade agreements. The representation requirement of paragraph (c)(1) and the certification requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this provision do not apply if-
8.405-7 Payment. No subsections found.
49.205 Completed end items. (a) (a) Promptly after the effective date of termination, the TCO shall (1) have all undelivered completed end items inspected and accepted if they comply with the contract requirements, and (2) determine which accepted end items are to be delivered under the contract. The contractor shall invoice accepted and delivered end items at the contract price in the usual manner and shall not include them in the settlement proposal. When completed end items, though accepted, are not to be delivered under the contract, the contractor shall include them in the settlement proposal at the contract price, adjusted for any saving of freight or other charges, together with any credits for their purchase, retention, or sale. (b) (b) Work in place accepted by the Government under a construction contract is not considered a completed item even though that work may have been paid for at unit prices specified in the contract.
52.227-15 Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. (a) (a) This solicitation sets forth the Government’s known delivery requirements for data (as defined in the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General). Any resulting contract may also provide the Government the option to order additional data under the Additional Data Requirements clause at 52.227-16, if included in the contract. Any data delivered under the resulting contract will be subject to the Rights in Data-General clause at 52.227-14 included in this contract. Under the latter clause, a Contractor may withhold from delivery data that qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software, and deliver form, fit, and function data instead. The latter clause also may be used with its Alternates II and/or III to obtain delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer software, marked with limited rights or restricted rights notices, as appropriate. In addition, use of Alternate V with this latter clause provides the Government the right to inspect such data at the Contractor’s facility. (b) (b) By completing the remainder of this paragraph, the offeror represents that it has reviewed the requirements for the delivery of technical data or computer software and states [offeror check appropriate block]- (c) (c) Any identification of limited rights data or restricted computer software in the offeror’s response is not determinative of the status of the data should a contract be awarded to the offeror.
41.203 GSA assistance. (a) (a) GSA will, upon request, provide technical and acquisition assistance, or will delegate its contracting authority for the furnishing of the services described in this part for any Federal agency, mixed-ownership Government corporation, the District of Columbia, the Senate, the House of Representatives, or the Architect of the Capitol and any activity under the Architect’s direction. (b) (b) Agencies, seeking assistance shall provide upon request by GSA the information listed in 41.301.
16.603-4 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall	include in each letter contract the clauses required by this regulation	for the type of definitive contract contemplated and any additional	clauses known to be appropriate for it. (b) (b) In addition,	the contracting officer shall insert the following clauses in solicitations	and contracts when a letter contract is contemplated: (c) (c) The contracting	officer shall also insert the clause at 52.216-26, Payments of	Allowable Costs Before Definitization, in solicitations and contracts	if a cost-reimbursement definitive contract is contemplated, unless	the acquisition involves conversion, alteration, or repair of ships.
29.101 Resolving tax problems. (a) (a) Contract tax problems are essentially legal in nature and vary widely. Specific tax questions must be resolved by reference to the applicable contract terms and to the pertinent tax laws and regulations. Therefore, when tax questions arise, contracting officers should request assistance from the agency-designated legal counsel. (b) (b) To keep treatment within an agency consistent, contracting officers or other authorized personnel shall consult the agency-designated counsel before negotiating with any taxing authority for the purpose of- (c) (c) When the constitutional immunity of the Government from State or local taxation may reasonably be at issue, contractors should be discouraged from negotiating independently with taxing authorities if the contract involved is either- (d) (d) Before purchasing goods or services from a foreign source, the contracting officer should consult the agency-designated counsel-
19.1401 General. (a) (a) The Veterans Benefit Act of2003 (15 U.S.C. 657f) created the procurement program for small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans (commonly referred to as the "Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Program"). (b) (b) The purpose of the SDVOSB Program is to provide Federal contracting assistance to service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.
32.1007 Administration and payment of performance-based payments. (a) (a) Responsibility. The contracting officer responsible for administering performance-based payments (see 42.302(a)(13)) for the contract shall review and approve all performance-based payments for that contract. (b) (b) Approval of financing requests. Unless otherwise provided in agency regulations, or by agreement with the appropriate payment official- (c) (c) Reviews. The contracting officer is responsible for determining what reviews are required for protection of the Government’s interests. The contracting officer should consider the contractor’s experience, performance record, reliability, financial strength, and the adequacy of controls established by the contractor for the administration of performance-based payments. Based upon the risk to the Government, post-payment reviews and verifications should normally be arranged as considered appropriate by the contracting officer. If considered necessary by the contracting officer, pre-payment reviews may be required. (d) (d) Incomplete performance. The contracting officer shall not approve a performance-based payment until the specified event or performance criterion has been successfully accomplished in accordance with the contract. If an event is cumulative, the contracting officer shall not approve the performance-based payment unless all identified preceding events or criteria are accomplished. (e) (e) Government-caused delay. Entitlement to a performance-based payment is solely on the basis of successful performance of the specified events or performance criteria. However, if there is a Government-caused delay, the contracting officer may renegotiate the performance-based payment schedule to facilitate contractor billings for any successfully accomplished portions of the delayed event or criterion.
3.904-2 Procedures for investigating complaints. (a) (a) Investigation of complaints will be in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 4712(b). (b) (b) Upon completion of the investigation, the head of the agency shall ensure that the report of findings has been provided by the Inspector General to the head of the agency and to— (c) (c) The complainant, contractor, and/or subcontractor shall be afforded the opportunity to submit a written response to the report of findings to the head of the agency and the Office of Inspector General in a time and manner that permits the agency head to take action not later than 30 days after receiving the report, as required by 3.905–1(a).
16.105 Solicitation provision. (a) (a) A fixed-price acquisition made under simplified acquisition procedures; or (b) (b) Information or planning purposes.
27.305-1 Goals. (a) (a) Contracts having a patent rights clause should be so administered that- (b) (b) If a subject invention is made under a contract funded by more than one agency, at the request of the contractor or on their own initiative, the agencies shall designate one agency as responsible for administration of the rights of the Government in the invention.
52.246-25 Limitation of Liability-Services. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause, and except to the extent that the Contractor is expressly responsible under this contract for deficiencies in the services required to be performed under it (including any materials furnished in conjunction with those services), the Contractor shall not be liable for loss of or damage to property of the Government that- (b) (b) The limitation of liability under paragraph (a) of this clause shall not apply when a defect or deficiency in, or the Government’s acceptance of, services performed or materials furnished results from willful misconduct or lack of good faith on the part of any of the Contractor’s managerial personnel. The term "Contractor’s managerial personnel," as used in this clause, means the Contractor’s directors, officers, and any of the Contractor’s managers, superintendents, or equivalent representatives who have supervision or direction of- (c) (c) If the Contractor carries insurance, or has established a reserve for self-insurance, covering liability for loss or damage suffered by the Government through the Contractor’s performance of services or furnishing of materials under this contract, the Contractor shall be liable to the Government, to the extent of such insurance or reserve, for loss of or damage to property of the Government occurring after Government acceptance of, and resulting from any defects and deficiencies in, services performed or materials furnished under this contract.
3.104-4 Disclosure, protection, and marking of contractor bid or proposal information and source selection information. (a) (a) Except as specifically provided for in this subsection, no person or other entity may disclose contractor bid or proposal information or source selection information to any person other than a person authorized, in accordance with applicable agency regulations or procedures, by the agency head or the contracting officer to receive such information. (b) (b) Contractor bid or proposal information and source selection information must be protected from unauthorized disclosure in accordance with 14.401, 15.207, applicable law, and agency regulations. (c) (c) Individuals unsure if particular information is source selection information, as defined in 2.101, should consult with agency officials as necessary. Individuals responsible for preparing material that may be source selection information as described at paragraph (10) of the "source selection information" definition in 2.101 must mark the cover page and each page that the individual believes contains source selection information with the legend "Source Selection Information-See FAR 2.101 and 3.104." Although the information in paragraphs (1) through (9) of the definition in 2.101 is considered to be source selection information whether or not marked, all reasonable efforts must be made to mark such material with the same legend. (d) (d) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this subsection, the contracting officer must notify the contractor in writing if the contracting officer believes that proprietary information, contractor bid or proposal information, or information marked in accordance with 52.215-1(e) has been inappropriately marked. The contractor that has affixed the marking must be given an opportunity to justify the marking. (e) (e) This section does not restrict or prohibit- (f) (f) This section does not authorize-
36.518 Work oversight in cost-reimbursement construction contracts. No subsections found.
37.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.247-68 Report of Shipment (REPSHIP). (a) (a) Definition. "Domestic destination", as used in this clause, means- (b) (b) Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall-
8.714 Communications with the central nonprofit agencies and the Committee. (a) (a) The addresses of the central nonprofit agencies are: (b) (b) Any matter requiring referral to the Committee shall be addressed to:
25.400 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart provides policies and procedures applicable to acquisitions that are covered by- (b) (b) For application of the trade agreements that are unique to individual agencies, see agency regulations.
52.225-18 Place of Manufacture. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-
12.402 Acceptance. (a) (a) The acceptance paragraph in 52.212-4 is based upon the assumption that the Government will rely on the contractor’s assurances that the commercial product or commercial service tendered for acceptance conforms to the contract requirements. The Government inspection of commercial products or commercial services will not prejudice its other rights under the acceptance paragraph. Additionally, although the paragraph does not address the issue of rejection, the Government always has the right to refuse acceptance of nonconforming items. This paragraph is generally appropriate when the Government is acquiring noncomplex commercial products and commercial services. (b) (b) Other acceptance procedures may be more appropriate for the acquisition of complex commercial products or commercial services, or commercial products or commercial services used in critical applications. In such cases, the contracting officer shall include alternative inspection procedure(s) in an addendum and ensure these procedures and the postaward remedies adequately protect the interests of the Government. The contracting officer must carefully examine the terms and conditions of any express warranty with regard to the effect it may have on the Government’s available postaward remedies (see 12.404). (c) (c) The acquisition of commercial products or commercial services under other circumstances such as on an "as is" basis may also require acceptance procedures different from those contained in 52.212-4. The contracting officer should consider the effect the specific circumstances will have on the acceptance paragraph as well as other paragraphs of the clause.
47.105 Transportation assistance. (a) (a) Civilian Government activities that do not have transportation officers, or otherwise need assistance on transportation matters, shall obtain assistance from- (b) (b) Military installations shall obtain transportation assistance from the transportation office of the contracting activity, unless another military activity has been designated as responsible for furnishing assistance, guidance, or data. Military transportation offices shall request needed additional aid from the Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC).
49.305-1 General. (a) (a) The TCO shall determine the adjusted fee to be paid, if any, in the manner provided by the contract. The determination is generally based on a percentage of completion of the contract or of the terminated portion. When this basis is used, factors such as the extent and difficulty of the work performed by the contractor (e.g., planning, scheduling, technical study, engineering work, production and supervision, placing and supervising subcontracts, and work performed by the contractor in (1) stopping performance, (2) settling terminated subcontracts, and (3) disposing of termination inventory) shall be compared with the total work required by the contract or by the terminated portion. The contractor’s adjusted fee shall not include an allowance for fee for subcontract effort included in subcontractors’ settlement proposals. (b) (b) The ratio of costs incurred to the total estimated cost of performing the contract or the terminated portion is only one factor in computing the percentage of completion. This percentage may be either greater or less than that indicated by the ratio of costs incurred, depending upon the evaluation by the TCO of other pertinent factors.
32.401 Statutory authority. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. chapter 45; (b) (b) 10 U.S.C. chapter 277; or (c) (c) Pub.L.85-804 (50 U.S.C. 1431-1435) and Executive Order 10789, November 14,1958 (3 CFR1958 Supp. pp. 72-74) (see subpart  50.1 for other applications of this statute).
19.202-1 Encouraging small business participation in acquisitions. (a) (a) Divide proposed acquisitions of supplies and services (except construction) into reasonably small lots (not less than economic production runs) to permit offers on quantities less than the total requirement. (b) (b) Plan acquisitions such that, if practicable, more than one small business concern may perform the work, if the work exceeds the amount for which a surety may be guaranteed by SBA against loss under 15 U.S.C. 694b (see definition of “Applicable Statutory Limit” at 13 CFR 115.10). (c) (c) Ensure that delivery schedules are established on a realistic basis that will encourage small business participation to the extent consistent with the actual requirements of the Government. (d) (d) Encourage prime contractors to subcontract with small business concerns (see subpart  19.7). (e) (e)
52.214-20 Bid Samples. (a) (a) "Bid sample" means a product sample required to be submitted by a bidder to show those characteristics of the offered products that cannot adequately be described by specifications, purchase descriptions, or the invitation for bid (e.g., balance, facility of use, or pattern). (b) (b) Bidders must furnish bid samples as part of the bid. The Government must receive the bid samples by the time specified in the invitation for bids. If the bidder fails to submit samples on time, the Government will reject the bid, except that the Contracting Officer will consider a late sample sent by mail under the Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids provision of this solicitation. (c) (c) The Government will test or evaluate bid samples to determine compliance with all the characteristics listed for examination in this solicitation. The Government will reject the bid when the sample fails to conform to the required characteristics. Products delivered under any resulting contract must conform to- (d) (d) Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, bid samples shall be-
4.705-1 Financial and cost accounting records. (a) (a) Accounts receivable invoices, adjustments to the accounts, invoice registers, carrier freight bills, shipping orders, and other documents which detail the material or services billed on the related invoices: Retain 4 years. (b) (b) Material, work order, or service order files, consisting of purchase requisitions or purchase orders for material or services, or orders for transfer of material or supplies: Retain 4 years. (c) (c) Cash advance recapitulations, prepared as posting entries to accounts receivable ledgers for amounts of expense vouchers prepared for employees’ travel and related expenses: Retain 4 years. (d) (d) Paid, canceled, and voided checks, other than those issued for the payment of salary and wages: Retain 4 years. (e) (e) Accounts payable records to support disbursements of funds for materials, equipment, supplies, and services, containing originals or copies of the following and related documents: remittance advices and statements, vendors’ invoices, invoice audits and distribution slips, receiving and inspection reports or comparable certifications of receipt and inspection of material or services, and debit and credit memoranda: Retain 4 years. (f) (f) Labor cost distribution cards or equivalent documents: Retain 2 years. (g) (g) Petty cash records showing description of expenditures, to whom paid, name of person authorizing payment, and date, including copies of vouchers and other supporting documents: Retain 2 years.
47.303-15 F.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of exportation. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of exportation" means free of expense to the Government loaded aboard the aircraft, or delivered to the custody of the air carrier (if only the air carrier performs the loading), at the air carrier’s terminal specified in the contract. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-43. F.o.b. Designated Air Carrier’s Terminal, Point of Exportation, when the delivery term is f.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of exportation.
52.216-10 Incentive Fee. (a) (a) General. The Government shall pay the Contractor for performing this contract a fee determined as provided in this contract. (b) (b) Target cost and target fee. The target cost and target fee specified in the Schedule are subject to adjustment if the contract is modified in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. (c) (c) Withholding of payment. (d) (d) Equitable adjustments. When the work under this contract is increased or decreased by a modification to this contract or when any equitable adjustment in the target cost is authorized under any other clause, equitable adjustments in the target cost, target fee, minimum fee, and maximum fee, as appropriate, shall be stated in a supplemental agreement to this contract. (e) (e) Fee payable. (f) (f) Contract modification. The total allowable cost and the adjusted fee determined as provided in this clause shall be evidenced by a modification to this contract signed by the Contractor and Contracting Officer. (g) (g) Inconsistencies. In the event of any language inconsistencies between this clause and provisioning documents or Government options under this contract, compensation for spare parts or other supplies and services ordered under such documents shall be determined in accordance with this clause.
47.207-9 Annotation and distribution of shipping and billing documents. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall state in detail the responsibilities of the contractor, the contracting agency, and, if appropriate, the consignee for the annotation and distribution of shipping and billing documents. See 41 CFR part 102-118, Transportation Payment and Audit. (b) (b) In instances of mass movements of freight made available to the contractor at one time, it is particularly important that the contracting officer specifies that bills of lading be cross-referenced so that the Government benefits from applicable volume rates. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-28, Contractor’s Invoices, in drayage or other term contracts.
22.1302 Policy. (a) (a) Contractors and subcontractors, when entering into contracts and subcontracts subject to the Act, are required to- (b) (b) Except for contracts for commercial products or commercial services, or contracts that do not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, contracting officers must not obligate or expend funds appropriated for the agency for a fiscal year to enter into a contract for the procurement of personal property and nonpersonal services (including construction) with a contractor that has not submitted the required annual VETS-4212, Federal Contractor Veterans’ Employment Report (VETS-4212 Report), with respect to the preceding fiscal year if the contractor was subject to the reporting requirements of 38 U.S.C. 4212(d) for that fiscal year.
3.907 Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the Recovery Act). No subsections found.
50.104 Residual powers. (a) (a) That covered by section 50.103; and (b) (b) The authority to make advance payments (see subpart  32.4).
17.603 Limitations. (a) (a) Management and operating contracts shall not be authorized for- (b) (b) Since issuance of an authorization under 17.602(a) is deemed sufficient proof of compliance with paragraph (a) immediately above, nothing in paragraph (a) immediately above shall affect the validity or legality of such an authorization. (c) (c) For use of project labor agreements, see subpart 22.5.
6.203 Set-asides for small business concerns. (a) (a) To fulfill the statutory requirements relating to small business concerns, contracting officers may set aside solicitations to allow only such business concerns to compete. This includes contract actions conducted under the Small Business Innovation Research Program established under Pub.L.97-219. (b) (b) No separate justification or determination and findings is required under this part to set aside a contract action for small business concerns. (c) (c) Subpart 19.5 prescribes policies and procedures that shall be followed with respect to set-asides.
Subpart 8.9 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
4.1005-1 Required data elements. (a) (a) Except as provided in 4.1005-2, each line item or subline item shall include in the schedule (described at 12.303(b)(4), 14.201-2, or 15.204-2, or in a comparable section of the procurement instrument), at a minimum, the following information as separate, distinct data elements: (b) (b) If a contract contains a combination of fixed-price, time-and-materials, labor-hour, or cost-reimbursable line items, identify the contract type for each line item in the schedule (or a comparable section of the procurement instrument) to facilitate payment. (c) (c) Each deliverable line item or deliverable subline item shall have its own delivery schedule, destination, period of performance, or place of performance expressly stated in the appropriate section of the procurement instrument ("as required" constitutes an expressly stated delivery term). When a line item has deliverable subline items, the delivery schedule, destination, period of performance, or place of performance shall be identified at the subline item level, rather than the line item level. (d) (d) Terms and conditions in other sections of the contract (such as contract clauses or payment instructions) shall also specify applicability to individual line items if not applicable to the contract as a whole.
50.205-4 Authorization of awards made presuming SAFETY Act designation or certification after contract award. (a) (a) When necessary to award a contract prior to DHS issuing SAFETY Act protections, contracting officers may award contracts presuming that DHS will issue a SAFETY Act designation/certification to the contractor after contract award only if- (b) (b) Contracting officers shall not authorize offers presuming that SAFETY Act certification will be obtained (as opposed to a SAFETY Act designation), unless a block certification applies to the class of technology to be acquired under the solicitation.
13.304 [Reserved] No subsections found.
30.202-3 Amendments and revisions. No subsections found.
42.1204 Applicability of novation agreements. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C.6305 prohibits transfer of Government contracts from the contractor to a third party. The Government may, when in its interest, recognize a third party as the successor in interest to a Government contract when the third party’s interest in the contract arises out of the transfer of- (b) (b) A novation agreement is unnecessary when there is a change in the ownership of a contractor as a result of a stock purchase, with no legal change in the contracting party, and when that contracting party remains in control of the assets and is the party performing the contract. However, whether there is a purchase of assets or a stock purchase, there may be issues related to the change in ownership that appropriately should be addressed in a formal agreement between the contractor and the Government (see 42.1203(e)). (c) (c) When it is in the Government’s interest not to concur in the transfer of a contract from one company to another company, the original contractor remains under contractual obligation to the Government, and the contract may be terminated for reasons of default, should the original contractor not perform. (d) (d) When considering whether to recognize a third party as a successor in interest to Government contracts, the responsible contracting officer shall identify and evaluate any significant organizational conflicts of interest in accordance with subpart  9.5. If the responsible contracting officer determines that a conflict of interest cannot be resolved, but that it is in the best interest of the Government to approve the novation request, a request for a waiver may be submitted in accordance with the procedures at 9.503. (e) (e) When a contractor asks the Government to recognize a successor in interest, the contractor shall submit to the responsible contracting officer three signed copies of the proposed novation agreement and one copy each, as applicable, of the following: (f) (f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the contractor shall submit to the responsible contracting officer one copy of each of the following documents, as applicable, as the documents become available: (g) (g) If the Government has acquired the documents during its participation in the pre-merger or pre-acquisition review process, or the Government’s interests are adequately protected with an alternative formulation of the information, the responsible contracting officer may modify the list of documents to be submitted by the contractor. (h) (h) When recognizing a successor in interest to a Government contract is consistent with the Government’s interest, the responsible contracting officer shall execute a novation agreement with the transferor and the transferee. It shall ordinarily provide in part that- (i) (i) The responsible contracting officer shall use the following format for agreements when the transferor and transferee are corporations and all the transferor’s assets are transferred. This format may be adapted to fit specific cases and may be used as a guide in preparing similar agreements for other situations.
12.215 Notification of overpayment. No subsections found.
52.230-4 Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices-Foreign Concerns. (a) (a) The Contractor, in connection with this contract, shall- (b) (b) If the parties fail to agree whether the Contractor has complied with an applicable CAS rule, or regulation as specified in 48 CFR 9903 and 48 CFR 9904 and as to any cost adjustment demanded by the U.S. Government, such failure to agree will constitute a dispute under 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, Contract Disputes. (c) (c) The Contractor shall permit any authorized representatives of the U.S. Government to examine and make copies of any documents, papers, and records relating to compliance with the requirements of this clause. (d) (d) The Contractor shall include in all negotiated subcontracts, which the Contractor enters into, the substance of this clause, except paragraph (b), and shall require such inclusion in all other subcontracts of any tier, except that—
8.103 Information on available excess personal property. (a) (a) Reviewing and requesting available excess personal property in GSAXcess® (see https://gsaxcess.gov); and (b) (b) Personal contact with GSA or the activity holding the property.
19.503 	Reserves. (a) (a) In accordance with section 1331 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 (15 U.S.C. 644(r)(3)) and 13 CFR 125.2(e)(4), contracting officers may, at their discretion when conducting multiple-award procurements using full and open competition, reserve one or more contract awards for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3), when market research indicates— (b) (b) A reserve will result in one of the following: (c) (c) The specific program eligibility requirements identified in this part apply. (d) (d) The limitations on subcontracting and the nonmanufacturer rule (see 19.505) do not apply to reserves at the contract level, but shall apply to orders that are set aside or issued directly to one small business concern under 19.504(c)(1)(ii).
4.2304 Procedures. (a) (a) Identifying applicable FASCSA orders. The applicability of FASCSA orders to a particular acquisition depends on the contracting office's agency, the scope of the FASCSA order, the funding, and whether the requirement involves certain types of information systems (see the definition of FASCSA order at 4.2301). The contracting officer shall coordinate with the program office or requiring activity to identify the FASCSA order(s) that apply to the acquisition as follows: (b) (b) Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition contracts, multi-agency contracts specific procedures— (c) (c) Updating the solicitation or contract for new FASCSA orders. The contracting officer shall update a solicitation or contract if the program office or requiring activity determines it is necessary to: (d) (d) Agency specific procedures. The contracting officer shall follow agency procedures for implementing FASCSA orders not identified in SAM (see 4.2303(c)(2)). (e) (e) Disclosures. If an offeror provides a disclosure pursuant to paragraph (e) of 52.204-29, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures, the contracting officer shall engage with the program office or requiring activity to determine whether to pursue a waiver, if available, in accordance with 4.2305 and agency procedures or not award to that offeror. For FASCSA orders handled at the order level, the disclosures language is found at paragraph (b)(5) of 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, with its Alternate II. (f) (f) Waiver. An acquisition may be either fully or partially covered by a waiver. Partial waiver coverage occurs when only portions of the products or services being procured or provided by a source are covered by an applicable waiver. If the requiring activity notifies the contracting officer that the acquisition is partially covered by an approved individual waiver or class waiver under 4.2305, then the contracting officer shall work with the program office or requiring activity to identify in the solicitation, RFQ, or order, the covered articles or services produced by or provided by a source that are subject to the waiver (see 41 CFR 201–1.304(b)). (g) (g) Reporting. If a contractor provides a report pursuant to paragraph (c) of 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, the contracting officer shall engage with the agency supply chain risk management program in accordance with agency procedures.
Subpart 13.2 - Actions At or Below the Micro-Purchase Threshold No subsections found.
22.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Deals with general policies regarding contractor labor relations as they pertain to the acquisition process; (b) (b) Prescribes contracting policy and procedures for implementing pertinent labor laws; and (c) (c) Prescribes contract clauses with respect to each pertinent labor law.
19.804-6 Indefinite delivery contracts. (a) (a) Separate offers and acceptances are not required for individual orders under multiple-award contracts (including the Federal Supply Schedules managed by GSA, multi-agency contracts or Governmentwide acquisition contracts, or indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts) that have been set aside for exclusive competition among 8(a) contractors, and the individual order is to be competed among all 8(a) contract holders. SBA's acceptance of the original contract is valid for the term of the contract. Offers and acceptances are required for individual orders under multiple-award contracts that have not been set aside for exclusive competition among 8(a) contractors. (b) (b) The contracting officer may issue an order on a sole source basis when— (c) (c) The contracting officer may issue an order directly to one 8(a) contractor in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii) when— (d) (d) An 8(a) contractor may continue to accept new orders under the contract, even if it exits the 8(a) program, or becomes other than small for the NAICS code(s) assigned to the contract. (e) (e) Agencies may continue to take credit toward their prime contracting small disadvantaged business or small business goals for orders awarded to 8(a) contractors, even after the contractor's 8(a) program term expires, the contractor otherwise exits the 8(a) program, or the contractor becomes other than small for the NAICS code(s) assigned under the 8(a) contract. However, if an 8(a) contractor rerepresents that it is other than small for the NAICS code(s) assigned under the contract in accordance with 19.301-2 or, where ownership or control of the 8(a) contractor has changed and SBA has granted a waiver to allow the contractor to continue performance (see 13 CFR 124.515), the agency may not credit any subsequent orders awarded to the contractor towards its small disadvantaged business or small business goals.
Subpart 31.6 - Contracts with State, Local, and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments No subsections found.
4.1002 Applicability. (a) (a) Solicitations. (b) (b) Contracts, including, but not limited to, Governmentwide acquisition contracts (GWACs), multi-agency contracts (MACs), Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) contracts, indefinite-delivery contracts, and purchase orders. (c) (c) Agreements that include pre-priced supplies or services. (d) (d) Task and delivery orders.
9.406-2 Causes for debarment. (a) (a) A contractor for a conviction of or civil judgment for- (b) (b) (c) (c) A contractor or subcontractor based on any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects the present responsibility of the contractor or subcontractor.
52.203-2 Certificate of Independent	Price Determination. (a) (a) The	offeror certifies that- (b) (b) Each signature	on the offer is considered to be a certification by the signatory	that the signatory- (c) (c) If the offeror deletes or modifies subparagraph (a)(2) above, the offeror must furnish with its offer a signed statement setting forth in detail the circumstances of the disclosure.
15.002 Types of negotiated acquisition. (a) (a) Sole source acquisitions. When contracting in a sole source environment, the request for proposals (RFP) should be tailored to remove unnecessary information and requirements; e.g., evaluation criteria and voluminous proposal preparation instructions. (b) (b) Competitive acquisitions. When contracting in a competitive environment, the procedures of this part are intended to minimize the complexity of the solicitation, the evaluation, and the source selection decision, while maintaining a process designed to foster an impartial and comprehensive evaluation of offerors’ proposals, leading to selection of the proposal representing the best value to the Government (see 2.101).
32.608 Interest. No subsections found.
4.402 General. (a) (a) Executive Order 12829, January 6, 1993 (58 FR3479, January 8, 1993), entitled "National Industrial Security Program" (NISP), establishes a program to safeguard Federal Government classified information that is released to contractors, licensees, and grantees of the United States Government. Executive Order 12829 amends Executive Order 10865, February 20, 1960 (25 FR1583, February 25, 1960), entitled "Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry," as amended by Executive Order 10909, January 17, 1961 (26 FR508, January 20, 1961). (b) (b) The National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM) incorporates the requirements of these Executive orders. The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with all affected agencies and with the concurrence of the Secretary of Energy, the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is responsible for issuance and maintenance of this Manual. The following publications implement the program: (c) (c) Procedures for the protection of information relating to foreign classified contracts awarded to U.S. industry, and instructions for the protection of U.S. information relating to classified contracts awarded to foreign firms, are prescribed in 32 CFR 117.19. (d) (d) Nondefense agencies that have industrial security services agreements with DoD, and DoD components, shall use the DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, to provide security classification guidance to U.S. contractors, and subcontractors as applicable, requiring access to information classified as "Confidential", "Secret", or "Top Secret". (e) (e) Part  27, Patents, Data, and Copyrights, contains policy and procedures for safeguarding classified information in patent applications and patents.
36.605 Government cost estimate for architect-engineer work. (a) (a) An independent Government estimate of the cost of architect-engineer services shall be prepared and furnished to the contracting officer before commencing negotiations for each proposed contract or contract modification expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. The estimate shall be prepared on the basis of a detailed analysis of the required work as though the Government were submitting a proposal. (b) (b) Access to information concerning the Government estimate shall be limited to Government personnel whose official duties require knowledge of the estimate. An exception to this rule may be made during contract negotiations to allow the contracting officer to identify a specialized task and disclose the associated cost breakdown figures in the Government estimate, but only to the extent deemed necessary to arrive at a fair and reasonable price. The overall amount of the Government’s estimate shall not be disclosed except as permitted by agency regulations.
36.601-1 Public announcement. No subsections found.
32.302 Authority. (a) (a) Department of Defense. (b) (b) Department of Energy. (c) (c) Department of Commerce. (d) (d) Department of the Interior. (e) (e) Department of Agriculture. (f) (f) General Services Administration. (g) (g) National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
15.508 Discovery of mistakes. No subsections found.
28.104 Annual performance bonds. (a) (a) Annual performance bonds only apply to nonconstruction contracts. They shall provide a gross penal sum applicable to the total amount of all covered contracts. (b) (b) When the penal sums obligated by contracts are approximately equal to or exceed the penal sum of the annual performance bond, an additional bond will be required to cover additional contracts.
22.1401 Policy. (a) (a) Take affirmative action to employ, and advance in employment, qualified individuals with disabilities, and to otherwise treat qualified individuals without discrimination based on their physical or mental disability; (b) (b) Undertake appropriate outreach and positive recruitment activities that are reasonably designed to effectively recruit qualified individuals with disabilities; and (c) (c) Compare the utilization of individuals with disabilities in their workforces to the utilization goal, as prescribed in the regulations of the Secretary of Labor, on an annual basis.
Part 16 - Types of Contracts No subsections found.
15.204-3 Part II-Contract Clauses. No subsections found.
18.125 Protest to GAO. No subsections found.
3.1004 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert the clause at FAR 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, in solicitations and contracts if the value of the contract is expected to exceed $6 million and the performance period is 120 days or more. (b) (b)
52.215-3 Request for Information or Solicitation for Planning Purposes. (a) (a) The Government does not intend to award a contract on the basis of this solicitation or to otherwise pay for the information solicited except as an allowable cost under other contracts as provided in subsection 31.205-18, Bid and proposal costs, of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (b) (b) Although "proposal" and "offeror" are used in this Request for Information, your response will be treated as information only. It shall not be used as a proposal. (c) (c) This solicitation is issued for the purpose of: ___________________________ [state purpose].
Subpart 36.5 - Contract Clauses No subsections found.
33.213 Obligation to continue performance. (a) (a) In general, before passage of the Disputes statute, the obligation to continue performance applied only to claims arising under a contract. However, the Disputes statute, at 41 U.S.C. 7103(g), authorizes agencies to require a contractor to continue contract performance in accordance with the contracting officer’s decision pending a final resolution of any claim arising under, or relating to, the contract. (A claim arising under a contract is a claim that can be resolved under a contract clause, other than the clause at 52.233-1, Disputes, that provides for the relief sought by the claimant; however, relief for such claim can also be sought under the clause at 52.233-1. A claim relating to a contract is a claim that cannot be resolved under a contract clause other than the clause at 52.233-1.) This distinction is recognized by the clause with its AlternateI (see 33.215). (b) (b) In all contracts that include the clause at 52.233-1, Disputes, with its AlternateI, in the event of a dispute not arising under, but relating to, the contract, the contracting officer shall consider providing, through appropriate agency procedures, financing of the continued performance; provided, that the Government’s interest is properly secured.
4.1701 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.237-10 Identification of Uncompensated Overtime. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision- (b) (b) (c) (c) The offeror’s accounting practices used to estimate uncompensated overtime must be consistent with its cost accounting practices used to accumulate and report uncompensated overtime hours. (d) (d) Proposals that include unrealistically low labor rates, or that do not otherwise demonstrate cost realism, will be considered in a risk assessment and will be evaluated for award in accordance with that assessment. (e) (e) The offeror shall include a copy of its policy addressing uncompensated overtime with its proposal.
52.247-33 F.o.b. Origin, with Differentials. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. origin, with differentials," as used in this clause, means- (b) (b) The Contractor shall- (c) (c)
52.204-1 Approval of Contract. No subsections found.
52.223-13 [Reserved] No subsections found.
26.204 Justification for expenditures to other than local firms. (a) (a) 42U.S.C .5150(b)(1) requires that, subsequent to any Presidential declaration of a major disaster or emergency, any expenditure of Federal funds, under an emergency response contract not awarded to a local firm, must be justified in writing in the contract file. The justification should include consideration for the scope of the major disaster or emergency and the immediate requirements or needs of supplies and services to ensure life is protected, victims are cared for, and property is protected. (b) (b) The justification may be made on an individual or class basis. The contracting officer approves the justification.
34.004 Acquisition strategy. No subsections found.
52.226-5 Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area. (a) (a) Definitions. The definitions of the following terms used in this clause are found in the Small Business Administration regulations at 13 CFR 125.6(e): cost of the contract, cost of contract performance incurred for personnel, cost of manufacturing, cost of materials, personnel, and subcontracting. (b) (b) The Contractor agrees that in performance of the contract in the case of a contract for-
46.309 Research and development contracts (short form). No subsections found.
52.232 [Reserved] No subsections found.
27.406-2 Additional data requirements. (a) (a) In some contracting situations, such as experimental, developmental, research, or demonstration contracts, it may not be feasible to ascertain all the data requirements at contract award. The clause at 52.227-16, Additional Data Requirements, may be used to enable the subsequent ordering by the contracting officer of additional data first produced or specifically used in the performance of these contracts as the actual requirements become known. The clause shall normally be used in solicitations and contracts involving experimental, developmental, research or demonstration work (other than basic or applied research to be performed under a contract solely by a university or college when the contract amount will be $500,000 or less) unless all the requirements for data are believed to be known at the time of contracting and specified in the contract. If the contract is for basic or applied research to be performed by a university or college, and the contracting officer believes the contract effort will in the future exceed $500,000, even though the initial award does not, the contracting officer may include the clause in the initial award. (b) (b) Data may be ordered under the clause at 52.227-16 at any time during contract performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under the contract. The contractor is to be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery. In order to minimize storage costs for the retention of data, the contracting officer may relieve the contractor of the retention requirements for specified data items at any time during the retention period required by the clause. The contracting officer may permit the contractor to identify and specify in the contract data not to be ordered for delivery under the clause if the data is not necessary to meet the Government’s requirements for data. Also, the contracting officer may alter the clause by deleting the term "or specifically used" in paragraph (a) of the clause if delivery of the data is not necessary to meet the Government’s requirements for data. Any data ordered under this clause will be subject to the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General, (or other equivalent clause setting forth the respective rights of the Government and the contractor) in the contract. Data authorized to be withheld under such clause will not be required to be delivered under the clause at 52.227-16, except as provided in Alternate II or Alternate III, if included (see 27.404-2(c) and (d)). (c) (c) Absent an established program for dissemination of computer software, agencies should not order additional computer software under the clause at 52.227-16, for the sole purpose of disseminating or marketing the software to the public. In ordering software for internal purposes, the contracting officer shall consider, consistent with the Government’s needs, not ordering particular source codes, algorithms, processes, formulas, or flow charts of the software if the contractor shows that this aids its efforts to disseminate or market the software.
52.237-7 Indemnification and Medical Liability Insurance. (a) (a) It is expressly agreed and understood that this is a nonpersonal services contract, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 37.101, under which the professional services rendered by the Contractor are rendered in its capacity as an independent contractor. The Government may evaluate the quality of professional and administrative services provided, but retains no control over professional aspects of the services rendered, including by example, the Contractor’s professional medical judgment, diagnosis, or specific medical treatments. The Contractor shall be solely liable for and expressly agrees to indemnify the Government with respect to any liability producing acts or omissions by it or by its employees or agents. The Contractor shall maintain during the term of this contract liability insurance issued by a responsible insurance carrier of not less than the following amount(s) per specialty per occurrence: *_______________. (b) (b) An apparently successful offeror, upon request by the Contracting Officer, shall furnish prior to contract award evidence of its insurability concerning the medical liability insurance required by paragraph (a) of this clause. (c) (c) Liability insurance may be on either an occurrences basis or on a claims-made basis. If the policy is on a claims-made basis, an extended reporting endorsement (tail) for a period of not less than 3 years after the end of the contract term must also be provided. (d) (d) Evidence of insurance documenting the required coverage for each health care provider who will perform under this contract shall be provided to the Contracting Officer prior to the commencement of services under this contract. If the insurance is on a claims-made basis and evidence of an extended reporting endorsement is not provided prior to the commencement of services, evidence of such endorsement shall be provided to the Contracting Officer prior to the expiration of this contract. Final payment under this contract shall be withheld until evidence of the extended reporting endorsement is provided to the Contracting Officer. (e) (e) The policies evidencing required insurance shall also contain an endorsement to the effect that any cancellation or material change adversely affecting the Government’s interest shall not be effective until 30 days after the insurer or the Contractor gives written notice to the Contracting Officer. If, during the performance period of the contract the Contractor changes insurance providers, the Contractor must provide evidence that the Government will be indemnified to the limits specified in paragraph (a) of this clause, for the entire period of the contract, either under the new policy, or a combination of old and new policies. (f) (f) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all subcontracts under this contract for health care services and shall require such subcontractors to provide evidence of and maintain insurance in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause. At least 5 days before the commencement of work by any subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer evidence of such insurance.
53.251 Contractor use of Government supply sources (OF 347). No subsections found.
Subpart 14.1 - Use of Sealed Bidding No subsections found.
15.407-5 Estimating systems. (a) (a) Using an acceptable estimating system for proposal preparation benefits both the Government and the contractor by increasing the accuracy and reliability of individual proposals. Cognizant audit activities, when it is appropriate to do so, shall establish and manage regular programs for reviewing selected contractors’ estimating systems or methods, in order to reduce the scope of reviews to be performed on individual proposals, expedite the negotiation process, and increase the reliability of proposals. The results of estimating system reviews shall be documented in survey reports. (b) (b) The auditor shall send a copy of the estimating system survey report and a copy of the official notice of corrective action required to each contracting office and contract administration office having substantial business with that contractor. Significant deficiencies not corrected by the contractor shall be a consideration in subsequent proposal analyses and negotiations.
18.118 Overtime approvals. No subsections found.
52.252-6 Authorized Deviations in Clauses. (a) (a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause. (b) (b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any _____ [insert regulation name] (48 CFR _____) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.
39.203 Applicability. (a) (a) General. Unless an exception at 39.204 or an exemption at 39.205 applies, acquisitions for ICT supplies and services shall meet the applicable ICT accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194.1. (b) (b) Indefinite-quantity contracts. Confirmation of an exception or a determination of an exemption is not required prior to award of an indefinite-quantity contract, except for requirements that are to be satisfied by initial award. The contract must identify which supplies and services the contractor indicates as compliant and show where full details of compliance can be found (e.g., vendor's or other exact website location). (c) (c) Task order or delivery order. At the time of issuance of a task order or delivery order under an indefinite-quantity contract, the requiring and ordering activities shall ensure compliance with the ICT accessibility standards and document an exception or exemption if applicable. Any task order or delivery order, or portion thereof, issued for a noncompliant ICT item shall be supported by the appropriate exception or exemption documented by the requiring activity. (d) (d) Commercial products and commercial services. When acquiring commercial products and commercial services, an agency must comply with those ICT accessibility standards that can be met with supplies or services that are available in the commercial marketplace and that best address the agency's needs, but see 39.205(a)(3). (e) (e) Legacy ICT. Any component or portion of existing ICT (i.e., ICT that was procured, maintained, or used on or before January 18, 2018) is not required to comply with the current ICT accessibility standards if it— (f) (f) Alterations of legacy ICT. When altering any component or portion of existing ICT, after January 18, 2018, the component or portion must be modified to conform to the current ICT accessibility standards in 36 CFR 1194.1.
47.305-5 Destination unknown. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c)
Subpart 4.6 - Contract Reporting No subsections found.
31.205 Selected costs. No subsections found.
52.243-4 Changes. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may, at any time, without notice to the sureties, if any, by written order designated or indicated to be a change order, make changes in the work within the general scope of the contract, including changes- (b) (b) Any other written or oral order (which, as used in this paragraph (b), includes direction, instruction, interpretation, or determination) from the Contracting Officer that causes a change shall be treated as a change order under this clause; Provided, that the Contractor gives the Contracting Officer written notice stating- (c) (c) Except as provided in this clause, no order, statement, or conduct of the Contracting Officer shall be treated as a change under this clause or entitle the Contractor to an equitable adjustment. (d) (d) If any change under this clause causes an increase or decrease in the Contractor’s cost of, or the time required for, the performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by any such order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment and modify the contract in writing. However, except for an adjustment based on defective specifications, no adjustment for any change under paragraph (b) of this clause shall be made for any costs incurred more than 20 days before the Contractor gives written notice as required. In the case of defective specifications for which the Government is responsible, the equitable adjustment shall include any increased cost reasonably incurred by the Contractor in attempting to comply with the defective specifications. (e) (e) The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days after (1) receipt of a written change order under paragraph (a) of this clause or (2) the furnishing of a written notice under paragraph (b) of this clause, by submitting to the Contracting Officer a written statement describing the general nature and amount of the proposal, unless this period is extended by the Government. The statement of proposal for adjustment may be included in the notice under paragraph (b) of this clause. (f) (f) No proposal by the Contractor for an equitable adjustment shall be allowed if asserted after final payment under this contract.
Subpart 42.6 - Corporate Administrative Contracting Officer No subsections found.
22.2110 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.204-18 Commercial and Government Entity Code Maintenance. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this clause– (b) (b) Contractors shall ensure that the CAGE code is maintained throughout the life of the contract for each location of contract, including subcontract, performance. For contractors registered in the System for Award Management (SAM), the DLA Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Branch shall only modify data received from SAM in the CAGE master file if the contractor initiates those changes via update of its SAM registration. Contractors undergoing a novation or change-of-name agreement shall notify the contracting officer in accordance with subpart 42.12. The contractor shall communicate any change to the CAGE code to the contracting officer within 30 days after the change, so that a modification can be issued to update the CAGE code on the contract. (c) (c) Contractors located in the United States or its outlying areas that are not registered in SAM shall submit written change requests to the DLA Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Branch. Requests for changes shall be provided at https://cage.dla.mil. Change requests to the CAGE master file are accepted from the entity identified by the code. (d) (d) Contractors located outside the United States and its outlying areas that are not registered in SAM shall contact the appropriate National Codification Bureau (points of contact available at http://www.nato.int/structur/AC/135/main/links/contacts.htm) or NSPA at https://eportal.nspa.nato.int/AC135Public/scage/CageList.aspx to request CAGE changes. (e) (e) Additional guidance for maintaining CAGE codes is available at https://cage.dla.mil. (f) (f) If the contract includes Federal Acquisition Regulation clause 52.204-2, Security Requirements, the contractor shall ensure that subcontractors maintain their CAGE code(s) throughout the life of the contract.
13.302-3 Obtaining contractor acceptance and modifying purchase orders. (a) (a) When it is desired to consummate a binding contract between the parties before the contractor undertakes performance, the contracting officer shall require written (see 2.101) acceptance of the purchase order by the contractor. (b) (b) Each purchase order modification shall identify the order it modifies and shall contain an appropriate modification number. (c) (c) A contractor’s written acceptance of a purchase order modification may be required only if-
22.1022 Withholding of contract payments. No subsections found.
Subpart 22.20 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
9.106 Preaward surveys. No subsections found.
1.105-1 Publication and code arrangement. (a) (a) The FAR is published in— (b) (b) The FAR is issued as Chapter 1 of Title 48, CFR. Subsequent chapters are reserved for agency acquisition regulations that implement or supplement the FAR (see subpart  1.3). The CFR Staff will assign chapter numbers to requesting agencies. (c) (c) Each numbered unit or segment (e.g., part, subpart, section, etc.) of an agency acquisition regulation that is codified in the CFR shall begin with the chapter number. However, the chapter number assigned to the FAR will not be included in the numbered units or segments of the FAR.
37.103 Contracting officer responsibility. (a) (a) The contracting officer is responsible for ensuring that a proposed contract for services is proper. For this purpose the contracting officer shall- (b) (b) Nonpersonal services contracts are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (c) (c) Ensure that performance-based acquisition methods are used to the maximum extent practicable when acquiring services. (d) (d) Ensure that contracts for child care services include requirements for criminal history background checks on employees who will perform child care services under the contract in accordance with 34 U.S.C. 20351 and agency procedures. (e) (e) Ensure that service contractor reporting requirements are met in accordance with subpart  4.17, Service Contracts Inventory.
12.301 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services. (a) (a) In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 3307, contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include only those clauses— (b) (b) Insert the following provisions in solicitations for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services, and clauses in solicitations and contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services: (c) (c) When the use of evaluation factors is appropriate, the contracting officer may— (d) (d) Other required provisions and clauses. Notwithstanding prescriptions contained elsewhere in the FAR, when acquiring commercial products or commercial services, contracting officers shall be required to use only those provisions and clauses prescribed in this part. The provisions and clauses prescribed in this part shall be revised, as necessary, to reflect the applicability of statutes and executive orders to the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. (e) (e) Discretionary use of FAR provisions and clauses. The contracting officer may include in solicitations and contracts by addendum other FAR provisions and clauses when their use is consistent with the limitations contained in 12.302. For example: (f) (f) Agencies may supplement the provisions and clauses prescribed in this part (to require use of additional provisions and clauses) only as necessary to reflect agency unique statutes applicable to the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services or as may be approved by the agency senior procurement executive, or the individual responsible for representing the agency on the FAR Council, without power of delegation.
3.701 Purpose. (a) (a) An administrative remedy with respect to contracts in relation to which there has been- (b) (b) A means to deter similar misconduct in the future by those who are involved in the award, performance, and administration of Government contracts.
Volume II-Parts 52 & 53 No subsections found.
17.805 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.217-10, Reverse Auction, in solicitations when using a reverse auction to award a contract or blanket purchase agreement. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.217-11, Reverse Auction—Orders, in solicitations and contracts for a multiple-award contract or blanket purchase agreement, when a reverse auction may be used to place orders under the basic contract or blanket purchase agreement. (c) (c)The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.217-12, Reverse Auction Services, in all solicitations and contracts for the purchase of reverse auction services.
52.204-25 Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Prohibition. (c) (c) Exceptions. This clause does not prohibit contractors from providing— (d) (d) Reporting requirement. (e) (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e) and excluding paragraph (b)(2), in all subcontracts and other contractual instruments, including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
19.1302 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
46.805 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. The contracting officer shall insert the appropriate clause or combination of clauses specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section in solicitations and contracts when the contract amount is expected to be in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is subject to the requirements of this subpart as indicated in 46.801: (b) (b) Acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. The clauses prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section are not required for contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. However, in response to a contractor’s specific request, the contracting officer may insert the clauses prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(4) of this section in a contract at or below the simplified acquisition threshold and may obtain any price reduction that is appropriate.
51.101 Policy. (a) (a) If it is in the Government’s interest, and if supplies or services required in the performance of a Government contract are available from Government supply sources, contracting officers may authorize contractors to use these sources in performing- (b) (b) Contractors with fixed-price Government contracts that require protection of security classified information may acquire security equipment through GSA sources (see 41 CFR 101-26.507). (c) (c) Contracting officers shall authorize contractors purchasing supply items for Government use that are available from the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (see subpart  8.7) to purchase such items from the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), the General Services Administration (GSA), and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) if they are available from these agencies through their distribution facilities. Mandatory supplies that are not available from DLA/GSA/VA shall be ordered through the appropriate central nonprofit agency (see 52.208-9(c)).
43.301 Use of forms. (a) (a) (b) (b) The Optional Form 336 (OF 336), Continuation Sheet, or a blank sheet of paper, may be used as a continuation sheet for a contract modification.
Subpart 4.10 - Uniform Use of Line Items No subsections found.
Part 51 - Use of Government Sources by Contractors No subsections found.
52.225-4 Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (a) (a) (b) (b) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahraini, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act": (c) (c) (d) (d) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of part  25 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
44.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
19.101 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.236-27 Site Visit (Construction). (a) (a) The clauses at 52.236-2, Differing Site Conditions, and 52.236-3, Site Investigations and Conditions Affecting the Work, will be included in any contract awarded as a result of this solicitation. Accordingly, offerors or quoters are urged and expected to inspect the site where the work will be performed. (b) (b) Site visits may be arranged during normal duty hours by contacting:
27.405-3 Commercial computer	software. (a) (a) When contracting other than from	GSA’s Multiple Award Schedule contracts for the acquisition of commercial	computer software, no specific contract clause prescribed in this	subpart need be used, but the contract shall specifically address the	Government’s rights to use, disclose, modify, distribute, and reproduce	the software. Section 12.212 sets	forth the guidance for the acquisition of commercial computer software	and states that commercial computer software or commercial computer	software documentation shall be acquired under licenses customarily	provided to the public to the extent the license is consistent with	Federal law and otherwise satisfies the Government’s needs. The	clause at 52.227-19, Commercial	Computer Software License, may be used when there is any confusion	as to whether the Government’s needs are satisfied or whether a	customary commercial license is consistent with Federal law. Additional	or lesser rights may be negotiated using the guidance concerning	restricted rights as set forth in 27.404-2(d), or the clause	at 52.227-19. If greater rights	than the minimum rights identified in the clause at 52.227-19 are needed,	or lesser rights are to be acquired, they shall be negotiated and	set forth in the contract. This includes any additions to, or limitations	on, the rights set forth in paragraph (b) of the clause at 52.227-19 when used. Examples	of greater rights may be those necessary for networking purposes	or use of the software from remote terminals communicating with	a host computer where the software is located. If the computer software	is to be acquired with unlimited rights, the contract shall also	so state. In addition, the contract shall adequately describe the	computer programs and/or databases, the media on which it is recorded,	and all the necessary documentation. (b) (b) If the	contract incorporates, makes reference to, or uses a vendor’s standard	commercial lease, license, or purchase agreement, the contracting	officer shall ensure that the agreement is consistent with paragraph (a) of	this subsection. The contracting officer should exercise caution	in accepting a vendor’s terms and conditions, since they may be	directed to commercial sales and may not be appropriate for Government	contracts. Any inconsistencies in a vendor’s standard commercial	agreement shall be addressed in the contract and the contract terms	shall take precedence over the vendor’s standard commercial agreement.	If the clause at 52.227-19 is	used, inconsistencies in the vendor’s standard commercial agreement	regarding the Government’s right to use, reproduce or disclose the	computer software are reconciled by that clause. (c) (c) If a prime	contractor under a contract containing the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General,	with paragraph (g)(4) (Alternate III) in the clause, acquires restricted	computer software from a subcontractor (at any tier) as a separate	acquisition for delivery to or for use on behalf of the Government,	the contracting officer may approve any additions to, or limitations	on the restricted rights in the Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph	(g)(4) in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of	the contract.
11.107 Solicitation provision. (a) (a) Insert the provision at 52.211-6, Brand Name or Equal, when brand name or equal purchase descriptions are included in a solicitation. (b) (b) Insert the provision at 52.211-7, Alternatives to Government-Unique Standards, in solicitations that use Government-unique standards when the agency uses the transaction-based reporting method to report its use of voluntary consensus standards to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (see OMB Circular A-119, "Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities"). Use of the provision is optional for agencies that report their use of voluntary consensus standards to the National Institute of Standards and Technology using the categorical reporting method. Agencies that manage their specifications on a contract-by-contract basis use the transaction-based method of reporting. Agencies that manage their specifications centrally use the categorical method of reporting. Agency regulations regarding specification management describe which method is used.
52.248 [Reserved] No subsections found.
15.404-4 Profit. (a) (a) General. This subsection prescribes policies for establishing the profit or fee portion of the Government prenegotiation objective in price negotiations based on cost analysis. (b) (b) Policy. (c) (c) Contracting officer responsibilities. (d) (d) Profit-analysis factors-
52.222-24 Preaward On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Evaluation. No subsections found.
22.402 Applicability. (a) (a) Contracts for construction work. (b) (b) Nonconstruction contracts involving some construction work.
Subpart 48.2 - Contract Clauses No subsections found.
6.302-2 Unusual and compelling urgency. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Application. This authority applies in those situations where- (c) (c) Limitations. (d) (d) Period of Performance.
30.602 Materiality. (a) (a) In determining materiality, the CFAO shall use the criteria in 48 CFR 9903.305. (b) (b) A CFAO determination of materiality- (c) (c) When the CFAO determines the cost impact is immaterial, the CFAO shall- (d) (d) For required, unilateral, and desirable changes, and CAS noncompliances, when the amount involved is material, the CFAO shall follow the applicable provisions in 30.603, 30.604, 30.605, and 30.606.
52.216-2 Economic Price Adjustment-Standard Supplies. (a) (a) The Contractor warrants that the unit price stated in the Schedule for ____________ [offeror insert Schedule line item number] is not in excess of the Contractor’s applicable established price in effect on the contract date for like quantities of the same item. The term "unit price" excludes any part of the price directly resulting from requirements for preservation, packaging, or packing beyond standard commercial practice. The term "established price" means a price that- (b) (b) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the amount and effective date of each decrease in any applicable established price. Each corresponding contract unit price shall be decreased by the same percentage that the established price is decreased. The decrease shall apply to those items delivered on and after the effective date of the decrease in the Contractor’s established price, and this contract shall be modified accordingly. (c) (c) If the Contractor’s applicable established price is increased after the contract date, the corresponding contract unit price shall be increased, upon the Contractor’s written request to the Contracting Officer, by the same percentage that the established price is increased, and the contract shall be modified accordingly, subject to the following limitations: (d) (d) During the time allowed for the cancellation provided for in paragraph (c)(5) of this clause, and thereafter if there is no cancellation, the Contractor shall continue deliveries according to the contract delivery schedule, and the Government shall pay for such deliveries at the contract unit price, increased to the extent provided by paragraph (c) of this clause.
52.247-49 Destination Unknown. No subsections found.
4.1400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
4.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part prescribes policies and procedures relating to the administrative aspects of contract execution, contractor-submitted paper documents, distribution, reporting, retention, and files. (b) (b) Additionally, this part includes policies and procedures to implement security prohibitions and exclusions that restrict Federal agencies from procuring, obtaining, or using certain products, services, or sources. Additional security prohibitions and exclusions are found at subparts 25.7 and 40.2.
9.109-4 Certification by the offeror. (a) (a) In order to be eligible for contract award, an offeror is required to— (b) (b) If certifying in accordance with 52.209-13(b)(1), the Offeror is required to submit the certification with the offer. It is not included in the annual representations and certifications in the System for Award Management. (c) (c) The contracting officer may rely on an offeror's certification unless the contracting officer has reason to question the certification. (d) (d) Upon the determination of a false certification under 52.209-13, an offeror will be subject to such remedies as suspension or debarment under subpart 9.4 shall be for a period of not less than 2 years, inclusive of any suspension period, if suspension precedes a debarment (see 9.406-4(a)(1)(iii) and (a)(2)).
15.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
48.101 General. (a) (a) Value engineering is the formal technique by which contractors may (1) voluntarily suggest methods for performing more economically and share in any resulting savings or (2)be required to establish a program to identify and submit to the Government methods for performing more economically. Value engineering attempts to eliminate, without impairing essential functions or characteristics, anything that increases acquisition, operation, or support costs. (b) (b) There are two value engineering approaches:
53.216 Types of contracts. No subsections found.
32.003 Simplified acquisition procedures financing. No subsections found.
15.609 Limited use of data. (a) (a) An unsolicited proposal may include data that the offeror does not want disclosed to the public for any purpose or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes. If the offeror wishes to restrict the data, the title page must be marked with the following legend: (b) (b) The offeror shall also mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend: Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal. (c) (c) The agency point of contact shall return to the offeror any unsolicited proposal marked with a legend different from that provided in paragraph (a) of this section. The return letter will state that the proposal cannot be considered because it is impracticable for the Government to comply with the legend and that the agency will consider the proposal if it is resubmitted with the proper legend. (d) (d) The agency point of contact shall place a cover sheet on the proposal or clearly mark it as follows, unless the offeror clearly states in writing that no restrictions are imposed on the disclosure or use of the data contained in the proposal: (e) (e) Use the notice in paragraph (d) of this section solely as a manner of handling unsolicited proposals that will be compatible with this subpart. However, do not use this notice to justify withholding of a record, or to improperly deny the public access to a record, where an obligation is imposed by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). An offeror should identify trade secrets, commercial or financial information, and privileged or confidential information to the Government (see paragraph (a) of this section). (f) (f) When an agency receives an unsolicited proposal without any restrictive legend from an educational or nonprofit organization or institution, and an evaluation outside the Government is necessary, the agency point of contact shall- (g) (g) If the proposal is received with the restrictive legend (see paragraph (a) of this section), the modified cover sheet shall also be used and permission shall be obtained from the offeror before release of the proposal for evaluation by non-Government personnel. (h) (h) When an agency receives an unsolicited proposal with or without a restrictive legend from other than an educational or nonprofit organization or institution, and evaluation by Government personnel outside the agency or by experts outside of the Government is necessary, written permission must be obtained from the offeror before release of the proposal for evaluation. The agency point of contact shall-
45.602-3 Screening. (a) (a) Standard screening. The standard screening period is 46 days. (b) (b) Special screening requirements.-
29.402-4 Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan. (a) (a) Use the clause at 52.229-13, Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan, in solicitations and contracts with performance in Afghanistan awarded by or on behalf of U.S. Forces, unless the clause at 52.229-14 is used. (b) (b) Use the clause at 52.229-14, Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan (North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement), instead of the clause at 52.229-13, Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan, in solicitations and contracts with performance in Afghanistan awarded on behalf of or in support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), which are governed by the NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA).
22.1700 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
49.603-2 Fixed-price contracts-partial termination. No subsections found.
42.706 Distribution of documents. (a) (a) The contracting officer or auditor shall promptly distribute executed copies of the indirect cost rate agreement to the contractor and to each affected contracting agency and shall provide copies of the agreement for the contract files, in accordance with the guidance for contract modifications in subpart  4.2, Contract Distribution. (b) (b) Copies of the negotiation memorandum prepared under contracting officer determination or audit report prepared under auditor determination shall be furnished, as appropriate, to the contracting offices and Government audit offices.
52.222-19 Child Labor-Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies. (a) (a) Applicability. This clause does not apply to the extent that the Contractor is supplying end products mined, produced, or manufactured in- (b) (b) Cooperation with Authorities. To enforce the laws prohibiting the manufacture or importation of products mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor, authorized officials may need to conduct investigations to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any product furnished under this contract. If the solicitation includes the provision 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products, or the equivalent at 52.212-3(i), the Contractor agrees to cooperate fully with authorized officials of the contracting agency, the Department of the Treasury, or the Department of Justice by providing reasonable access to records, documents, persons, or premises upon reasonable request by the authorized officials. (c) (c) Violations. The Government may impose remedies set forth in paragraph (d) for the following violations: (d) (d) Remedies.
17.201 [Reserved] No subsections found.
36.504 Physical data. No subsections found.
31.205-22 Lobbying and political activity costs. (a) (a) Costs associated with the following activities are unallowable: (b) (b) The following activities are excepted from the coverage of (a) of this section: (c) (c) When a contractor seeks reimbursement for indirect costs, total lobbying costs shall be separately identified in the indirect cost rate proposal, and thereafter treated as other unallowable activity costs. (d) (d) Contractors shall maintain adequate records to demonstrate that the certification of costs as being allowable or unallowable (see 42.703-2) pursuant to this subsection complies with the requirements of this subsection. (e) (e) Existing procedures should be utilized to resolve in advance any significant questions or disagreements concerning the interpretation or application of this subsection.
19.308 Protesting a firm’s status as an economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concern or women-owned small business concern eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program. (a) (a) Definition. Interested party, as used in this section, has the meaning given in 13 CFR 127.102. (b) (b) (c) (c) Protests relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures of 19.302. An interested party seeking to protest both the small business size and WOSB or EDWOSB status of an apparent successful offeror shall file two separate protests. (d) (d) All protests shall be in writing and must state all specific grounds for the protest. (e) (e) Protest by an interested party. (f) (f) (g) (g) SBA will notify the protester and the contracting officer of the date SBA received the protest. (h) (h) Before SBA decision. (i) (i) After SBA decision. SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested concern of its determination. The determination is effective immediately and is final unless overturned on appeal by OHA pursuant to 13 CFR part 134. (j) (j) Appeals of EDWOSB or WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program status determinations. (k) (k) The appeal must be in writing. The appeal must identify the protest determination being appealed and must set forth a full and specific statement as to why the EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB program protest determination is alleged to be based on a clear error of fact or law, together with an argument supporting such allegation. (l) (l) The party appealing the decision must provide notice of the appeal to- (m) (m) OHA will make its decision within 15 business days of the receipt of the appeal, if practicable. SBA will provide a copy of the decision to the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB program. The OHA decision is the final agency decision and is binding on the parties.
8.708 Shipping. (a) (a) Delivery is accomplished when a shipment is placed aboard the vehicle of the initial carrier. The time of delivery is the date shipment is released to and accepted by the initial carrier. (b) (b) Shipment is normally under Government bills of lading. However, for small orders, ordering offices may specify other shipment methods. (c) (c) When shipments are under Government bills of lading, the bills of lading may accompany orders or be otherwise furnished promptly. Failure of an ordering office to furnish bills of lading or to designate a method of transportation may result in an excusable delay in delivery. (d) (d) AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies shall include transportation costs for small shipments paid by the nonprofit agencies as an item on the invoice. The ordering office shall reimburse the nonprofit agencies for these costs.
46.201 General. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall include in the solicitation and contract the appropriate quality requirements. The type and extent of contract quality requirements needed depends on the particular acquisition and may range from inspection at time of acceptance to a requirement for the contractor’s implementation of a comprehensive program for controlling quality. (b) (b) As feasible, solicitations and contracts may provide for alternative, but substantially equivalent, inspection methods to obtain wide competition and low cost. The contracting officer may also authorize contractor-recommended alternatives when in the Government’s interest and approved by the activity responsible for technical requirements. (c) (c) Although contracts generally make contractors responsible for performing inspection before tendering supplies to the Government, there are situations in which contracts will provide for specialized inspections to be performed solely by the Government. Among situations of this kind are- (d) (d) Except as otherwise specified by the contract, required contractor testing may be performed in the contractor’s or subcontractor’s laboratory or testing facility, or in any other laboratory or testing facility acceptable to the Government.
7.107-6 Solicitation provision. No subsections found.
7.107 Additional requirements for acquisitions involving consolidation, bundling, or substantial bundling. No subsections found.
43.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Orders for supplies or services not otherwise changing the terms of contracts or agreements (e.g., delivery orders under indefinite-delivery contracts); or (b) (b) Modifications for extraordinary contractual relief (see subpart  50.1).
25.504-3 FTA/Israeli Trade Act. (a) (a) Example 1. (b) (b) Example 2. (c) (c) Example 3.
51.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.211-11 Liquidated Damages-Supplies, Services, or Research and Development. (a) (a) If the Contractor fails to deliver the supplies or perform the services within the time specified in this contract, the Contractor shall, in place of actual damages, pay to the Government liquidated damages of $__________ per calendar day of delay [Contracting Officer insert amount]. (b) (b) If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part under the Default-Fixed-Price Supply and Service clause, the Contractor is liable for liquidated damages accruing until the Government reasonably obtains delivery or performance of similar supplies or services. These liquidated damages are in addition to excess costs of repurchase under the Termination clause. (c) (c) The Contractor will not be charged with liquidated damages when the delay in delivery or performance is beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor as defined in the Default-Fixed-Price Supply and Service clause in this contract.
32.906 Making payments. (a) (a) General. The Government will not make invoice payments earlier than 7 days prior to the due dates specified in the contract unless the agency head determines- (b) (b) Payment office. The designated payment office- (c) (c) Partial deliveries. (d) (d) Contractor identifier. Each payment or remittance advice will use the contractor invoice number in addition to any Government or contract information in describing any payment made. (e) (e) Discounts. When a discount for prompt payment is taken, the designated payment office will make payment to the contractor as close as possible to, but not later than, the end of the discount period. The discount period is specified by the contractor and is calculated from the date of the contractor’s proper invoice. If the contractor has not placed a date on the invoice, the due date is calculated from the date the designated billing office receives a proper invoice, provided the agency annotates such invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt. When the discount date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday when Government offices are closed, the designated payment office may make payment on the following working day and take a discount. Payment terms are specified in the clause at 52.232-8, Discounts for Prompt Payment.
25.002 Applicability of subparts. No subsections found.
37.202 Exclusions. (a) (a) Routine information technology services unless they are an integral part of a contract for the acquisition of advisory and assistance services. (b) (b) Architectural and engineering services as defined in 40 U.S.C. 1102. (c) (c) Research on theoretical mathematics and basic research involving medical, biological, physical, social, psychological, or other phenomena.
3.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
12.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
47.507 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer may insert in solicitations and contracts, under agency procedures, additional appropriate clauses concerning the vessels to be used.
Subpart 41.7 - Formats No subsections found.
31.205-4 Bonding costs. (a) (a) Bonding costs arise when the Government requires assurance against financial loss to itself or others by reason of the act or default of the contractor. They arise also in instances where the contractor requires similar assurance. Included are such bonds as bid, performance, payment, advance payment, infringement, and fidelity bonds. (b) (b) Costs of bonding required pursuant to the terms of the contract are allowable. (c) (c) Costs of bonding required by the contractor in the general conduct of its business are allowable to the extent that such bonding is in accordance with sound business practice and the rates and premiums are reasonable under the circumstances.
19.809-1 	Preaward survey. No subsections found.
19.502-3 	Partial set-asides of contracts other than multiple-award contracts. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall set aside a portion or portions of an acquisition, except for construction, for exclusive small business participation when— (b) (b) When the contracting officer determines that a requirement is to be partially set aside, the solicitation shall identify which portion or portions are set aside and not set aside. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall specify in the solicitation how offers shall be submitted with regard to the set-aside and non-set-aside portions. (d) (d) Offers received from concerns that do not qualify as small business concerns shall be considered nonresponsive and shall be rejected on the set-aside portion of partial set-asides. However, before rejecting an offer otherwise eligible for award because of questions concerning the size representation, an SBA determination must be obtained (see subpart  19.3).
12.209 Determination of price reasonableness. No subsections found.
52.216-31 Time-and-Materials/Labor-Hour Proposal Requirements—Commercial Acquisition. (a) (a) The Government contemplates award of a Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hour type of contract resulting from this solicitation. (b) (b) The offeror must specify fixed hourly rates in its offer that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit. The offeror must specify whether the fixed hourly rate for each labor category applies to labor performed by-
1.201 Maintenance of the FAR. No subsections found.
14.407-1 General. No subsections found.
4.905 Solicitation provision. (a) (a) Do not include the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management; and (b) (b) Are not conducted under the procedures of part  12.
9.207 Changes in status regarding qualification requirements. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall promptly report to the agency activity which established the qualification requirement any conditions which may merit removal or omission from a QPL, QML, or QBL or affect whether a source should continue to be otherwise identified as meeting the requirement. These conditions exist when- (b) (b) After considering any of the above or other conditions reasonably related to whether a product or source continues to meet the standards specified for qualification, an agency may take appropriate action without advance notification. The agency shall, however, promptly notify the affected parties if a product or source is removed from a QPL, QML, or QBL, or will no longer be identified as meeting the standards specified for qualification. This notice shall contain specific information why the product or source no longer meets the qualification requirement.
16.202-1 Description. No subsections found.
22.1002-2 Wage determinations based on prevailing rates. No subsections found.
39.102 Management of risk. (a) (a) Prior to entering into a contract for information technology, an agency should analyze risks, benefits, and costs. (See part  7 for additional information regarding requirements definition.) Reasonable risk taking is appropriate as long as risks are controlled and mitigated. Contracting and program office officials are jointly responsible for assessing, monitoring and controlling risk when selecting projects for investment and during program implementation. (b) (b) Types of risk may include schedule risk, risk of technical obsolescence, cost risk, risk implicit in a particular contract type, technical feasibility, dependencies between a new project and other projects or systems, the number of simultaneous high risk projects to be monitored, funding availability, and program management risk. (c) (c) Appropriate techniques should be applied to manage and mitigate risk during the acquisition of information technology. Techniques include, but are not limited to: prudent project management; use of modular contracting; thorough acquisition planning tied to budget planning by the program, finance and contracting offices; continuous collection and evaluation of risk-based assessment data; prototyping prior to implementation; post implementation reviews to determine actual project cost, benefits and returns; and focusing on risks and returns using quantifiable measures.
31.104 Contracts with educational institutions. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall incorporate the cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.3 by reference in cost-reimbursement contracts with educational institutions as the basis for- (b) (b) The cost principles in this subpart are to be used as a guide in evaluating costs in connection with negotiating fixed-price contracts and termination settlements.
23.304 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.223-7, Notice of Radioactive Materials, in solicitations and contracts for supplies that are or that contain—
49.607 Delinquency notices. (a) (a) Cure notice. If a contract is to be terminated for default before the delivery date, a "Cure Notice" is required by the Default clause. Before using this notice, it must be ascertained that an amount of time equal to or greater than the period of "cure" remains in the contract delivery schedule or any extension to it. If the time remaining in the contract delivery schedule is not sufficient to permit a realistic "cure" period of 10 days or more, the "Cure Notice" should not be issued. The "Cure Notice" may be in the following format: (b) (b) Show cause notice. If the time remaining in the contract delivery schedule is not sufficient to permit a realistic "cure" period of 10 days or more, the following "Show Cause Notice" may be used. It should be sent immediately upon expiration of the delivery period.
19.804 Evaluation, offering, and acceptance. No subsections found.
25.702-2 Certification. No subsections found.
41.601 Utility services forms. (a) (a) If acquiring utility services under other than an areawide contract, a purchase order or an interagency agreement, the Standard Form (SF) 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award; SF 26, Award/Contract; or SF 1447, Solicitation/Contract, shall be used. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall incorporate the applicable rate schedule in each contract, purchase order or modification.
13.301 Governmentwide commercial purchase card. (a) (a) Except as provided in 32.1108(b)(2), the Governmentwide commercial purchase card is authorized for use in making and/or paying for purchases of supplies, services, or construction. The Governmentwide commercial purchase card may be used by contracting officers and other individuals designated in accordance with 1.603-3. The card may be used only for purchases that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation. (b) (b) Agencies using the Governmentwide commercial purchase card shall establish procedures for use and control of the card that comply with the Treasury Financial Manual for Guidance of Departments and Agencies (TFM 4-4500) and that are consistent with the terms and conditions of the current GSA credit card contract. Agency procedures should not limit the use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card to micro-purchases. Agency procedures should encourage use of the card in greater dollar amounts by contracting officers to place orders and to pay for purchases against contracts established under part  8 procedures, when authorized; and to place orders and/or make payment under other contractual instruments, when agreed to by the contractor. See 32.1110(d) for instructions for use of the appropriate clause when payment under a written contract will be made through use of the card. (c) (c) The Governmentwide commercial purchase card may be used to-
15.606-2 Evaluation. (a) (a) Comprehensive evaluations shall be coordinated by the agency contact point, who shall attach or imprint on each unsolicited proposal, circulated for evaluation, the legend required by 15.609(d). When performing a comprehensive evaluation of an unsolicited proposal, evaluators shall consider the following factors, in addition to any others appropriate for the particular proposal: (b) (b) The evaluators shall notify the agency point of contact of their recommendations when the evaluation is completed.
50.205-1 SAFETY Act Considerations. (a) (a) SAFETY Act applicability. Requiring activities should review requirements to identify potential technologies that prevent, detect, identify, or deter acts of terrorism or limit the harm such acts might cause, and may be appropriate for SAFETY Act protections. In questionable cases, the agency shall consult with DHS. For acquisitions involving such technologies, the requiring activity should ascertain through discussions with DHS whether a block designation or block certification exists for the technology being acquired. (b) (b) Early consideration of the SAFETY Act. Acquisition officials shall consider SAFETY Act issues as early in the acquisition cycle as possible (see 7.105(b)(20)(v)). Normally, this would be at the point where the required capabilities or performance characteristics are addressed. This is important because the processing times for issuing determinations on all types of SAFETY Act applications vary depending on many factors, including the influx of applications to DHS and the technical complexity of individual applications. (c) (c) Industry outreach. When applicable, acquisition officials should include SAFETY Act considerations in all industry outreach efforts including, but not limited to, requests for information, draft requests for proposal, and industry conferences. (d) (d) Reciprocal waiver of claims. For purposes of 6 CFR 25.5(e), the Government is not a customer from which a contractor must request a reciprocal waiver of claims.
36.103 Methods of contracting. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall use sealed bid procedures for a construction contract if the conditions in 6.401(a) apply, unless the contract will be performed outside the United States and its outlying areas. (See 6.401(b)(2).) (b) (b) Contracting officers shall acquire architect-engineer services by negotiation, and select sources in accordance with applicable law, subpart  36.6, and agency regulations.
52.232-8 Discounts for Prompt Payment. (a) (a) Discounts for prompt payment will not be considered in the evaluation of offers. However, any offered discount will form a part of the award, and will be taken if payment is made within the discount period indicated in the offer by the offeror. As an alternative to offering a discount for prompt payment in conjunction with the offer, offerors awarded contracts may include discounts for prompt payment on individual invoices. (b) (b) In connection with any discount offered for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. If the Contractor has not placed a date on the invoice, the due date shall be calculated from the date the designated billing office receives a proper invoice, provided the agency annotates such invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date that appears on the payment check or, for an electronic funds transfer, the specified payment date. When the discount date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday when Federal Government offices are closed and Government business is not expected to be conducted, payment may be made on the following business day.
3.902 Classified information. No subsections found.
27.202-2 Notice of Government as a licensee. (a) (a) When the Government is obligated to pay a royalty on a patent because of an existing license agreement and the contracting officer believes that the licensed patent will be applicable to a prospective contract, the Government should furnish the prospective offerors with- (b) (b) When the Government is obligated to pay such a royalty, the solicitation should also require offerors to furnish information indicating whether or not each offeror is the patent owner or a licensee under the patent. This information is necessary so that the Government may either-
50.101 General. No subsections found.
42.301 General. No subsections found.
22.1307 Collective bargaining agreements. No subsections found.
6.206 Set-asides for service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) concerns eligible under the SDVOSB Program. (a) (a) To fulfill the statutory requirements relating to the Veterans Benefits Act of2003 (15 U.S.C. 657f), contracting officers may set-aside solicitations to allow only service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns eligible under the SDVOSB Program to compete (see 19.1405). (b) (b) No separate justification or determination and findings are required under this part to set aside a contract action for service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns eligible under the SDVOSB Program.
19.202-4 Solicitation. (a) (a) Allow the maximum amount of time practicable for the submission of offers. (b) (b) Furnish specifications, plans, and drawings with solicitations, or furnish information as to where they may be obtained or examined. (c) (c) Provide to any small business concern, upon its request, a copy of solicitations with respect to any contract to be let, the name and telephone number of an agency contact to answer questions related to such prospective contract and adequate citations to each major Federal law or agency rule with which such business concern must comply in performing such contract other than laws or agency rules with which the small business must comply when doing business with other than the Government.
52.214-25 Step Two of Two-Step Sealed Bidding. (a) (a) This invitation for bids is issued to initiate step two of two-step sealed bidding under subpart  14.5 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (b) (b) The only bids that the Contracting Officer may consider for award of a contract are those received from bidders that have submitted acceptable technical proposals in step one of this acquisition under _________________[the Contracting Officer shall insert the identification of the step-one request for technical proposals]. (c) (c) Any bidder that has submitted multiple technical proposals in step one of this acquisition may submit a separate bid on each technical proposal that was determined to be acceptable to the Government.
32.404 Exclusions. (a) (a) This subpart does not apply to advance payments authorized by law for- (b) (b) Agencies may issue their own instructions to deal with advance payment items in paragraph (a) of this section authorized under statutes relevant to their agencies.
Subpart 22.8 - Equal Employment Opportunity No subsections found.
52.216-15 Predetermined Indirect Cost Rates. (a) (a) Notwithstanding the Allowable Cost and Payment clause of this contract, the allowable indirect costs under this contract shall be obtained by applying predetermined indirect cost rates to bases agreed upon by the parties, as specified below. (b) (b) (c) (c) Allowability of costs and acceptability of cost allocation methods shall be determined in accordance with FAR subpart  31.3 in effect on the date of this contract. (d) (d) Predetermined rate agreements in effect on the date of this contract shall be incorporated into the contract Schedule. The Contracting Officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) and Contractor shall negotiate rates for subsequent periods and execute a written indirect cost rate agreement setting forth the results. The agreement shall specify (1) the agreed-upon predetermined indirect cost rates, (2) the bases to which the rates apply, (3) the period for which the rates apply, and (4) the specific items treated as direct costs or any changes in the items previously agreed to be direct costs. The indirect cost rate agreement shall not change any monetary ceiling, contract obligation, or specific cost allowance or disallowance provided for in this contract. The agreement is incorporated into this contract upon execution. (e) (e) Pending establishment of predetermined indirect cost rates for any fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the parties), the Contractor shall be reimbursed either at the rates fixed for the previous fiscal year (or other period) or at billing rates acceptable to the Contracting Officer (or cognizant Federal agency official), subject to appropriate adjustment when the final rates for that period are established. (f) (f) Any failure by the parties to agree on any predetermined indirect cost rates under this clause shall not be considered a dispute within the meaning of the Disputes clause. If for any fiscal year (or other period specified in the Schedule) the parties fail to agree to predetermined indirect cost rates, the allowable indirect costs shall be obtained by applying final indirect cost rates established in accordance with the Allowable Cost and Payment clause. (g) (g) Allowable indirect costs for the period from the beginning of performance until the end of the Contractor’s fiscal year (or other period specified in the Schedule) shall be obtained using the predetermined indirect cost rates and the bases shown in the Schedule.
47.303-10 F.o.b. inland carrier, point of exportation. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. inland carrier, point of exportation" means free of expense to the Government, on board the conveyance of the inland carrier, delivered to the specified point of exportation. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-38, F.o.b. Inland Carrier, Point of Exportation, when the delivery term is f.o.b. inland carrier, point of exportation.
52.249-10 Default (Fixed-Price Construction). (a) (a) If the Contractor refuses or fails to prosecute the work or any separable part, with the diligence that will insure its completion within the time specified in this contract including any extension, or fails to complete the work within this time, the Government may, by written notice to the Contractor, terminate the right to proceed with the work (or the separable part of the work) that has been delayed. In this event, the Government may take over the work and complete it by contract or otherwise, and may take possession of and use any materials, appliances, and plant on the work site necessary for completing the work. The Contractor and its sureties shall be liable for any damage to the Government resulting from the Contractor’s refusal or failure to complete the work within the specified time, whether or not the Contractor’s right to proceed with the work is terminated. This liability includes any increased costs incurred by the Government in completing the- work. (b) (b) The Contractor’s right to proceed shall not be terminated nor the Contractor charged with damages under this clause, if- (c) (c) If, after termination of the Contractor’s right to proceed, it is determined that the Contractor was not in default, or that the delay was excusable, the rights and obligations of the parties will be the same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of the Government. (d) (d) The rights and remedies of the Government in this clause are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.
4.1007 Solicitation alternative line item proposal. No subsections found.
52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures. (a) (a) Definitions. (b) (b) 41 U.S.C. chapter 87,	Kickbacks, prohibits any person from- (c) (c)
52.212-5 Contract Terms and Conditions Required To Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services: (b) (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services: (c) (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services: (d) (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101, on the date of award of this contract, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records-Negotiation. (e) (e)
19.804-3 SBA acceptance. (a) (a) Upon receipt of the contracting office's offering letter, SBA will determine whether to accept the requirement for the 8(a) program. SBA’s decision whether to accept the requirement will be transmitted to the contracting office in writing within 10 working days of receipt of the offer if the contract is likely to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and within two working days of receipt if the contract is at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. The contracting office may grant an extension of these time periods, if requested by SBA. (b) (b) As part of the acceptance process, SBA will review the appropriateness of the NAICS code designation assigned to the requirement by the contracting officer. (c) (c) Sole source 8(a) awards. If an appropriate match exists, SBA will advise the contracting officer whether it will participate in contract negotiations or whether SBA will authorize the contracting officer to negotiate directly with the identified 8(a) participant. Where SBA has delegated its contract execution functions to a contracting agency, SBA will also identify that delegation in its acceptance letter. For a joint venture, SBA will determine eligibility as part of its acceptance of a sole-source requirement and will approve the joint venture agreement prior to award in accordance with 13 CFR 124.513(e).
Subpart 31.3 - Contracts with Educational Institutions No subsections found.
19.506 Documentation requirements. (a) (a) (b) (b) If applicable,	the documentation shall include the rationale for not accepting	the recommendations made by the agency Director of the Office of	Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, or, for the Department	of Defense, the Director of the Office of Small Business Programs,	or the Director's designee, as to whether a particular acquisition	should be awarded under subparts 19.5, 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15. (c) (c) Documentation	is not required if a contract award is anticipated to a small business	under subpart 19.5, 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15.
52.230-1 Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification. (a) (a) Any contract in excess of the lower CAS threshold specified in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 30.201-4(b) resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (48 CFR chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1. (b) (b) Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by 48 CFR 9903.202. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror’s proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. (c) (c) Check the appropriate box below:
42.703-1 Policy. (a) (a) A single agency (see 42.705-1) shall be responsible for establishing final indirect cost rates for each business unit. These rates shall be binding on all agencies and their contracting offices, unless otherwise specifically prohibited by statute. An agency shall not perform an audit of indirect cost rates when the contracting officer determines that the objectives of the audit can reasonably be met by accepting the results of an audit that was conducted by any other department or agency of the Federal Government (10 U.S.C. 3841(e) and 41 U.S.C. 4706(e)). (b) (b) Billing rates and final indirect cost rates shall be used in reimbursing indirect costs under cost-reimbursement contracts and in determining progress payments under fixed-price contracts. (c) (c) To ensure compliance with 10 U.S.C. 3743(a) and 41 U.S.C. 4303(a)-
11.500 Scope. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for using liquidated damages clauses in solicitations and contracts for supplies, services, research and development, and construction. (b) (b) This subpart does not apply to liquidated damages-
4.2301 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.214-18 Preparation of Bids-Construction. (a) (a) Bids must be- (b) (b) The bid form may require bidders to submit bid prices for one or more items on various bases, including- (c) (c) If the solicitation requires bidding on all items, failure to do so will disqualify the bid. If bidding on all items is not required, bidders should insert the words "no bid" in the space provided for any item on which no price is submitted. (d) (d) Alternate bids will not be considered unless this solicitation authorizes their submission.
30.202-6 Responsibilities. (a) (a) The contracting officer is responsible for determining when a proposed contract may require CAS coverage and for including the appropriate notice in the solicitation. The contracting officer must then ensure that the offeror has made the required solicitation certifications and that required Disclosure Statements are submitted. (Also see 48 CFR 9903.201-3 and 9903.202). (b) (b) The contracting officer shall not award a CAS-covered contract until the cognizant Federal agency official (CFAO) has made a written determination that a required Disclosure Statement is adequate unless, in order to protect the Government's interest, the agency head, on a nondelegable basis, authorizes award without obtaining submission of the required Disclosure Statement (see 48 CFR 9903.202-2). In this event, the contractor shall submit the required Disclosure Statement and the CFAO shall make a determination of adequacy as soon as possible after the award. (c) (c) The cognizant auditor is responsible for conducting reviews of Disclosure Statements for adequacy and compliance. (d) (d) The CFAO is responsible for issuing determinations of adequacy and compliance of the Disclosure Statement.
26.502 Authority. No subsections found.
42.1201 [Reserved] No subsections found.
12.210 Contract financing. No subsections found.
52.216-28 Multiple Awards for Advisory and Assistance Services. No subsections found.
8.405-2 Ordering procedures for services requiring a statement of work. (a) (a) General. Ordering activities shall use the procedures in this subsection when ordering services priced at hourly rates as established by the schedule contracts. The applicable services will be identified in the Federal Supply Schedule publications and the contractor’s pricelists. For establishing BPAs and for orders under BPAs see 8.405-3. (b) (b) Statements of Work (SOWs). All Statements of Work shall include a description of work to be performed; location of work; period of performance; deliverable schedule; applicable performance standards; and any special requirements (e.g., security clearances, travel, special knowledge). To the maximum extent practicable, agency requirements shall be performance-based statements (see subpart  37.6). (c) (c) Request for Quotation procedures. The ordering activity must provide the request for quotation (RFQ), which includes the statement of work and evaluation criteria (e.g., experience and past performance), to schedule contractors that offer services that will meet the agency’s needs. The RFQ may be posted to GSA’s electronic RFQ system, eBuy (see 8.402(d)). (d) (d) Evaluation. The ordering activity shall evaluate all responses received using the evaluation criteria provided to the schedule contractors. The ordering activity is responsible for considering the level of effort and the mix of labor proposed to perform a specific task being ordered, and for determining that the total price is reasonable. Place the order with the schedule contractor that represents the best value (see 8.404(d) and 8.405-4). After award, ordering activities should provide timely notification to unsuccessful offerors. If an unsuccessful offeror requests information on an award that was based on factors other than price alone, a brief explanation of the basis for the award decision shall be provided. (e) (e) Use of time-and-materials and labor-hour orders for services. When placing a time-and-materials or labor-hour order for services, see 8.404(h). (f) (f) Minimum documentation. The ordering activity shall document-
5.301 General. (a) (a) Except for contract actions described in paragraph (b) of this section and as provided in 5.003, contracting officers must synopsize through the GPE the following: (b) (b) A notice is not required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if- (c) (c) With respect to acquisitions covered by the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement or a Free Trade Agreement, contracting officers must submit synopses in sufficient time to permit their publication in the GPE not later than 60 days after award. (d) (d) Posting is required of the justifications for-
52.225-20 Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan-Certification. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision- (b) (b) Certification. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan.
41.206 Interagency agreements. No subsections found.
16.603-1 Description. No subsections found.
52.227-10 Filing of Patent Applications-Classified Subject Matter. (a) (a) Before filing or causing to be filed a patent application in the United States disclosing any subject matter of this contract classified "Secret" or higher, the Contractor shall, citing the 30-day provision below, transmit the proposed application to the Contracting Officer. The Government shall determine whether, for reasons of national security, the application should be placed under an order of secrecy, sealed in accordance with the provision of 35 U.S.C. 181-188, or the issuance of a patent otherwise delayed under pertinent United States statutes or regulations. The Contractor shall observe any instructions of the Contracting Officer regarding the manner of delivery of the patent application to the United States Patent Office, but the Contractor shall not be denied the right to file the application. If the Contracting Officer shall not have given any such instructions within 30 days from the date of mailing or other transmittal of the proposed application, the Contractor may file the application. (b) (b) Before filing a patent application in the United States disclosing any subject matter of this contract classified "Confidential," the Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer a copy of the application for Government determination whether, for reasons of national security, the application should be placed under an order of secrecy or the issuance of a patent should be otherwise delayed under pertinent United States statutes or regulations. (c) (c) Where the subject matter of this contract is classified for reasons of security, the Contractor shall not file, or cause to be filed, in any country other than in the United States as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this clause, an application or registration for a patent containing any of the subject matter of this contract without first obtaining written approval of the Contracting Officer. (d) (d) When filing any patent application coming within the scope of this clause, the Contractor shall observe all applicable security regulations covering the transmission of classified subject matter and shall promptly furnish to the Contracting Officer the serial number, filing date, and name of the country of any such application. When transmitting the application to the United States Patent Office, the Contractor shall by separate letter identify by agency and number the contract or contracts that require security classification markings to be placed on the application. (e) (e) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts that cover or are likely to cover classified subject matter.
52.244-2 Subcontracts. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) When this clause is included in a fixed-price type contract, consent to subcontract is required only on unpriced contract actions (including unpriced modifications or unpriced delivery orders), and only if required in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this clause. (c) (c) If the Contractor does not have an approved purchasing system, consent to subcontract is required for any subcontract that- (d) (d) If the Contractor has an approved purchasing system, the Contractor nevertheless shall obtain the Contracting Officer’s written consent before placing the following subcontracts: (e) (e) (f) (f) Unless the consent or approval specifically provides otherwise, neither consent by the Contracting Officer to any subcontract nor approval of the Contractor’s purchasing system shall constitute a determination- (g) (g) No subcontract or modification thereof placed under this contract shall provide for payment on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis, and any fee payable under cost-reimbursement type subcontracts shall not exceed the fee limitations in FAR 15.404-4(c)(4)(i). (h) (h) The Contractor shall give the Contracting Officer immediate written notice of any action or suit filed and prompt notice of any claim made against the Contractor by any subcontractor or vendor that, in the opinion of the Contractor, may result in litigation related in any way to this contract, with respect to which the Contractor may be entitled to reimbursement from the Government. (i) (i) The Government reserves the right to review the Contractor’s purchasing system as set forth in FAR subpart  44.3. (j) (j) Paragraphs (c) and (e) of this clause do not apply to the following subcontracts, which were evaluated during negotiations:
52.219-25 [Reserved] No subsections found.
36.520 Contracting by negotiation. No subsections found.
52.247-50 No Evaluation of Transportation Costs. No subsections found.
52.228-6 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 29.4 - Contract Clauses No subsections found.
4.1902 Applicability. No subsections found.
9.104-6 Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c) If the contracting officer obtains relevant information from FAPIIS regarding criminal, civil, or administrative proceedings in connection with the award or performance of a Government contract; terminations for default or cause; determinations of nonresponsibility because the contractor does not have a satisfactory performance record or a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics; or comparable information relating to a grant, the contracting officer shall, unless the contractor has already been debarred, suspended, or has agreed to a voluntary exclusion- (d) (d) The contracting officer shall document the contract file for each contract in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold to indicate how the information in FAPIIS was considered in any responsibility determination, as well as the action that was taken as a result of the information. A contracting officer who makes a nonresponsibility determination is required to document that information in FAPIIS in accordance with 9.105-2(b)(2).
52.251 [Reserved] No subsections found.
31.201-3 Determining reasonableness. (a) (a) A cost is reasonable if, in its nature and amount, it does not exceed that which would be incurred by a prudent person in the conduct of competitive business. Reasonableness of specific costs must be examined with particular care in connection with firms or their separate divisions that may not be subject to effective competitive restraints. No presumption of reasonableness shall be attached to the incurrence of costs by a contractor. If an initial review of the facts results in a challenge of a specific cost by the contracting officer or the contracting officer’s representative, the burden of proof shall be upon the contractor to establish that such cost is reasonable. (b) (b) What is reasonable depends upon a variety of considerations and circumstances, including-
53.232 Contract financing (SF 1443). No subsections found.
Part 48 - Value Engineering No subsections found.
27.204 Patented technology under trade agreements. No subsections found.
35.004 Publicizing requirements and expanding research and development sources. (a) (a) In order to obtain a broad base of the best contractor sources from the scientific and industrial community, agencies must, in addition to following the requirements of part  5, continually search for and develop information on sources (including small business concerns) competent to perform R&D work. These efforts should include- (b) (b) See subpart  9.7 for information regarding R&D pools and subpart  9.6 for teaming arrangements.
52.219-9 Small Business Subcontracting Plan. (a) (a) This clause does not apply to small business concerns. (b) (b) Definitions. As used in this clause— (c) (c) (d) (d) The Offeror’s subcontracting plan shall include the following: (e) (e) In order to effectively implement this plan to the extent consistent with efficient contract performance, the Contractor shall perform the following functions: (f) (f) A master subcontracting plan on a plant or division-wide basis that contains all the elements required by paragraph (d) of this clause, except goals, may be incorporated by reference as a part of the subcontracting plan required of the Offeror by this clause; provided- (g) (g) A commercial plan is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors furnishing commercial products and commercial services. The commercial plan shall relate to the offeror’s planned subcontracting generally, for both commercial and Government business, rather than solely to the Government contract. Once the Contractor’s commercial plan has been approved, the Government will not require another subcontracting plan from the same Contractor while the plan remains in effect, as long as the product or service being provided by the Contractor continues to meet the definition of a commercial product or commercial service. A Contractor with a commercial plan shall comply with the reporting requirements stated in paragraph (d)(10) of this clause by submitting one SSR in eSRS for all contracts covered by its commercial plan. A Contractor authorized to use a commercial subcontracting plan shall include in its subcontracting goals and in its SSR all indirect costs, with the exception of those such as the following: Employee salaries and benefits; payments for petty cash; depreciation; interest; income taxes; property taxes; lease payments; bank fees; fines, claims, and dues; original equipment manufacturer relationships during warranty periods (negotiated up front with the product); utilities and other services purchased from a municipality or an entity solely authorized by the municipality to provide those services in a particular geographical region; and philanthropic contributions. This report shall be acknowledged or rejected in eSRS by the Contracting Officer who approved the plan. This report shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of the Government’s fiscal year. (h) (h) Prior compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting plans under previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the contract. (i) (i) A contract may have no more than one subcontracting plan. When a contract modification exceeds the subcontracting plan threshold in FAR 19.702(a), or an option is exercised, the goals of the existing subcontracting plan shall be amended to reflect any new subcontracting opportunities. When the goals in a subcontracting plan are amended, these goal changes do not apply retroactively. (j) (j) Subcontracting plans are not required from subcontractors when the prime contract contains the clause at FAR 52.212-5, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, or when the subcontractor provides a commercial product or commercial service subject to the clause at FAR 52.244-6, Subcontracts for Commercial Products and Commercial Services, under a prime contract. (k) (k) The failure of the Contractor or subcontractor to comply in good faith with (1) the clause of this contract entitled "Utilization Of Small Business Concerns;" or (2) an approved plan required by this clause, shall be a material breach of the contract and may be considered in any past performance evaluation of the Contractor. (l) (l) The Contractor shall submit ISRs and SSRs using the web-based eSRS at http://www.esrs.gov. Purchases from a corporation, company, or subdivision that is an affiliate of the Contractor or subcontractor are not included in these reports. Subcontract awards by affiliates shall be treated as subcontract awards by the Contractor. Subcontract award data reported by the Contractor and subcontractors shall be limited to awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot be taken for awards made to lower tier subcontractors, unless the Contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small business or small disadvantaged business credit from an ANC or Indian tribe. Only subcontracts involving performance in the United States or its outlying areas should be included in these reports with the exception of subcontracts under a contract awarded by the State Department or any other agency that has statutory or regulatory authority to require subcontracting plans for subcontracts performed outside the United States and its outlying areas.
9.409 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.219-18 Notification of Competition	Limited to Eligible 8(a) Participants. (a) (a) Offers are solicited only from— (b) (b) By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it meets the applicable criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. (c) (c) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to the Small Business Administration, which will subcontract performance to the successful 8(a) offeror selected through the evaluation criteria set forth in this solicitation. A contracting officer may consider a joint venture for contract award. SBA does not approve joint ventures for competitive awards, but see 13 CFR 124.501(g) for SBA's determination of participant eligibility. (d) (d) The ____________	[insert name of SBA's contractor]will notify the____________ [insert	name of contracting agency]Contracting Officer in writing	immediately upon entering an agreement (either oral or written)	to transfer all or part of its stock.
32.706-1 Clauses for contracting in advance of funds. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.232-18, Availability of Funds, in solicitations and contracts if the contract will be chargeable to funds of the new fiscal year and the contract action will be initiated before the funds are available. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.232-19, Availability of Funds for the Next Fiscal Year, in solicitations and contracts if a one-year indefinite-quantity or requirements contract for services is contemplated and the contract-
25.405 Caribbean Basin Trade Initiative. No subsections found.
8.711 Quality complaints. (a) (a) When the quality of supplies or services received is unsatisfactory, the using activity shall take the following actions: (b) (b) When quality problems cannot be resolved by the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency and the ordering office, the ordering office shall first contact the central nonprofit agency and then, if necessary, the Committee for resolution.
7.500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
32.1002 Bases for performance-based payments. (a) (a) Performance measured by objective, quantifiable methods. (b) (b) Accomplishment of defined events. (c) (c) Other quantifiable measures of results.
52.246-20 Warranty of Services. (a) (a) Definition."Acceptance," as used in this clause, means the act of an authorized representative of the Government by which the Government assumes for itself, or as an agent of another, ownership of existing and identified supplies, or approves specific services, as partial or complete performance of the contract. (b) (b) Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance by the Government or any provision concerning the conclusiveness thereof, the Contractor warrants that all services performed under this contract will, at the time of acceptance, be free from defects in workmanship and conform to the requirements of this contract. The Contracting Officer shall give written notice of any defect or nonconformance to the Contractor ____________ [Contracting Officer shall insert the specific period of time in which notice shall be given to the Contractor; e.g.,"within 30 days from the date of acceptance by the Government,"; within 1000 hours of use by the Government;" or other specified event whose occurrence will terminate the period of notice, or combination of any applicable events or period of time]. This notice shall state either- (c) (c) If the Contractor is required to correct or reperform, it shall be at no cost to the Government, and any services corrected or reperformed by the Contractor shall be subject to this clause to the same extent as work initially performed. If the Contractor fails or refuses to correct or reperform, the Contracting Officer may, by contract or otherwise, correct or replace with similar services and charge to the Contractor the cost occasioned to the Government thereby, or make an equitable adjustment in the contract price. (d) (d) If the Government does not require correction or reperformance, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price.
3.104-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
27.305-4 Protection of invention disclosures. (a) (a) The Government will, to the extent authorized by 35 U.S.C. 205, withhold from disclosure to the public any invention disclosures reported under the patent rights clauses of 52.227-11 or 52.227-13 for a reasonable time in order for patent applications to be filed. The Government will follow the policy in 27.302(j) regarding protection of confidentiality. (b) (b) The Government should also use reasonable efforts to withhold from disclosure to the public for a reasonable time other information disclosing a subject invention. This information includes any data delivered pursuant to contract requirements provided that the contractor notifies the agency as to the identity of the data and the subject invention to which it relates at the time of delivery of the data. This notification shall be provided to both the contracting officer and to any patent representative to which the invention is reported, if other than the contracting officer. (c) (c) For more information on protection of invention disclosures, also see 37 CFR 401.13.
47.104-2 Fixed-price contracts. (a) (a) F.o.b. destination. 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates do not apply to shipments under fixed-price f.o.b. destination contracts (delivered price). (b) (b) F.o.b. origin. If it is advantageous to the Government, the contracting officer may occasionally require the contractor to prepay the freight charges to a specific destination. In such cases, the contractor shall use a commercial bill of lading and be reimbursed for the direct and actual transportation cost as a separate item in the invoice. The clause at 52.247-1, Commercial Bill of Lading Notations, will ensure that the Government in this type of arrangement obtains the benefit of 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates.
32.608-2 Interest credits. (a) (a) An equitable interest credit shall be applied under the following circumstances: (b) (b) Any appropriate interest credits shall be computed under the following procedures:
19.1404 Exclusions. (a) (a) Requirements that can be satisfied through award to- (b) (b) Orders under indefinite-delivery contracts (see subpart 16.5). (But see 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) for discretionary set-asides of orders); (c) (c) Orders against Federal Supply Schedules (see subpart 8.4). (But see 8.405-5 for discretionary set-asides of orders); or (d) (d) Requirements currently being performed by an 8(a) participant or requirements SBA has accepted for performance under the authority of the 8(a) program, unless SBA has consented to release the requirements from the 8(a) program.
44.306 Disclosure of approval status. No subsections found.
11.601 Definitions. No subsections found.
15.403-2 Other circumstances where certified cost or pricing data are not required. (a) (a) The exercise of an option at the price established at contract award or initial negotiation does not require submission of certified cost or pricing data. (b) (b) Certified cost or pricing data are not required for proposals used solely for overrun funding or interim billing price adjustments.
22.2109 Enforcement of Executive Order 13706 paid sick leave requirements. (a) (a) Authority. Section 4 of the E.O. grants to the Secretary of Labor the authority for investigating potential violations of, and obtaining compliance with, the E.O. The Secretary of Labor, in promulgating the implementing regulations required by section 3 of the E.O., has assigned this authority to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division. Contracting agencies do not have authority to conduct compliance investigations under 29 CFR Part 13 as implemented in this subpart. This does not limit the contracting officer's authority to otherwise enforce the terms and conditions of the contract. (b) (b) Complaints. (c) (c) Investigations. Complaints will be investigated by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, if warranted, in accordance with the procedures in 29 CFR 13.43. (d) (d) Remedies and sanctions. (e) (e) Inclusion of contract clause. If a contracting agency fails to include the clause at FAR 52.222-62 in a contract to which the E.O. applies, the contracting officer, on his or her own initiative or within 15 days of notification by an authorized representative of the Department of Labor, shall incorporate the contract clause in the contract retroactive to commencement of performance under the contract through the exercise of any and all authority that may be needed (including, where necessary, its authority to negotiate or amend, its authority to pay any necessary additional costs, and its authority under any contract provision authorizing changes, cancellation, and termination).
26.603 Definitions. No subsections found.
30.201-7 Cognizant Federal agency responsibilities. No subsections found.
Subpart 9.4 - Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility No subsections found.
52.222-2 Payment for Overtime Premiums. (a) (a) The use of overtime is authorized under this contract if the overtime premium does not exceed *______________ or the overtime premium is paid for work- (b) (b) Any request for estimated overtime premiums that exceeds the amount specified above shall include all estimated overtime for contract completion and shall-
49.402-5 Memorandum by the contracting officer. No subsections found.
25.602-2 Buy American statute No subsections found.
15.306 Exchanges with offerors after receipt of proposals. (a) (a) Clarifications and award without discussions. (b) (b) Communications with offerors before establishment of the competitive range. Communications are exchanges, between the Government and offerors, after receipt of proposals, leading to establishment of the competitive range. If a competitive range is to be established, these communications- (c) (c) Competitive range. (d) (d) Exchanges with offerors after establishment of the competitive range. Negotiations are exchanges, in either a competitive or sole source environment, between the Government and offerors, that are undertaken with the intent of allowing the offeror to revise its proposal. These negotiations may include bargaining. Bargaining includes persuasion, alteration of assumptions and positions, give-and-take, and may apply to price, schedule, technical requirements, type of contract, or other terms of a proposed contract. When negotiations are conducted in a competitive acquisition, they take place after establishment of the competitive range and are called discussions. (e) (e) Limits on exchanges. Government personnel involved in the acquisition shall not engage in conduct that-
49.109-1 General. (a) (a) Any setoffs that the Government has against the contractor that may be applied against the terminated contract and (b) (b) All settlement proposals of subcontractors, except proposals that are specifically excepted from the agreement and reserved for separate settlement.
14.409-2 Award of classified contracts. No subsections found.
52.211-4 Availability for Examination of Specifications Not Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions. No subsections found.
22.304 Variations, tolerances, and exemptions. (a) (a) The Secretary of Labor, under 40 U.S.C.3706, upon the Secretary’s initiative or at the request of any Federal agency, may provide reasonable limitations and allow variations, tolerances, and exemptions to and from any or all provisions of the statute (see 29 CFR5.15). (b) (b) The Secretary of Labor may make variations, tolerances, and exemptions from the regulatory requirements of applicable parts of 29 CFRwhen the Secretary finds that such action is necessary and proper in the public interest or to prevent injustice and undue hardship (see 29 CFR5.14).
37.113-1 Waiver of cost allowability limitations. (a) (a) The head of the agency may waive the 31.205-6(g)(6) cost allowability limitations on severance payments to foreign nationals for contracts that- (b) (b) Waivers can be granted only before contract award. (c) (c) Waivers cannot be granted for-
Subpart 32.2 - Commercial Product and Commercial Service Purchase Financing No subsections found.
22.1006 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires, in solicitations and contracts if the contract amount is expected to be over $2,500 and the Service Contract Labor Standards statute is applicable. (See 22.1016.) (c) (c) (d) (d) [Reserved] (e) (e) (f) (f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.222-49, Service Contract Labor Standards-Place of Performance Unknown, if using the procedures prescribed in 22.1009-4.
42.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
50.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
32.705 Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligations. No subsections found.
13.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
36.202 Specifications. (a) (a) Construction specifications shall conform to the requirements in part  11 of this regulation. (b) (b) Whenever possible, contracting officers shall ensure that references in specifications are to widely recognized standards or specifications promulgated by governments, industries, or technical societies. (c) (c) When "brand name or equal" descriptions are necessary, specifications must clearly identify and describe the particular physical, functional, or other characteristics of the brand-name items which are considered essential to satisfying the requirement.
52.215-12 Subcontractor Certified Cost or Pricing Data. (a) (a) Before awarding any subcontract expected to exceed the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.403-4(a)(1), on the date of agreement on price or the date of award, whichever is later; or before pricing any subcontract modification involving a pricing adjustment expected to exceed the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1), the Contractor shall require the subcontractor to submit certified cost or pricing data (actually or by specific identification in writing), in accordance with FAR 15.408, Table 15-2(to include any information reasonably required to explain the subcontractor's estimating process such as the judgmental factors applied and the mathematical or other methods used in the estimate, including those used in projecting from known data, and the nature and amount of any contingencies included in the price), unless an exception under 15.403-1(b) applies. If the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data specified in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1) is adjusted for inflation as set forth in FAR 1.109(a), then pursuant to FAR 1.109(d) the changed threshold applies throughout the remaining term of the contract, unless there is a subsequent threshold adjustment. (b) (b) The Contractor shall require the subcontractor to certify in substantially the form prescribed in FAR 15.406-2 that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the data submitted under paragraph (a) of this clause were accurate, complete, and current as of the date of agreement on the negotiated price of the subcontract or subcontract modification. (c) (c) In each subcontract that, when entered into, exceeds the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1), the Contractor shall insert either—
17.502-2 The Economy Act. (a) (a) The Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535) authorizes agencies to enter into agreements to obtain supplies or services from another agency. The FAR applies when one agency uses another agency’s contract to obtain supplies or services. If the interagency business transaction does not result in a contract or an order, then the FAR does not apply. The Economy Act also provides authority for placement of orders between major organizational units within an agency; procedures for such intra-agency transactions are addressed in agency regulations. (b) (b) The Economy Act applies when more specific statutory authority does not exist. Examples of more specific authority are 40 U.S.C. 501 for the Federal Supply Schedules (subpart 8.4), and 40 U.S.C. 11302(e) for Governmentwide acquisition contracts (GWACs). (c) (c) Requirements for determinations and findings. (d) (d) Payment.
3.907-6 Remedies and enforcement authority. (a) (a) Burden of Proof. (b) (b) No later than 30 days after receiving an Inspector General report in accordance with section 1553 of the Recovery Act, the head of the agency concerned shall determine whether there is sufficient basis to conclude that the non-Federal employer has subjected the complainant to a reprisal prohibited by subsection 3.907-2 and shall either issue an order denying relief in whole or in part or shall take one or more of the following actions: (c) (c) (d) (d) Whenever an employer fails to comply with an order issued under this section, the head of the agency shall request the Department of Justice to file an action for enforcement of such order in the United States district court for a district in which the reprisal was found to have occurred. In any action brought under this section, the court may grant appropriate relief, including injunctive relief, compensatory and exemplary damages, and attorneys fees and costs. (e) (e) Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by an order issued under paragraph (b) of this subsection may obtain review of the order’s conformance with the law, and this section, in the United States Court of Appeals for a circuit in which the reprisal is alleged in the order to have occurred. No petition seeking such review may be filed more than 60 days after issuance of the order by the head of the agency.
16.201 General. No subsections found.
52.232-19 Availability of Funds for the Next Fiscal Year. No subsections found.
14.203-1 Transmittal to prospective bidders. No subsections found.
52.216 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.1903 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to contracts covered by the Service Contract Labor Standards statute (41 U.S.C. chapter 67, formerly known as the Service Contract Act, subpart  22.10), or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute (40 U.S.C. chapter 31, Subchapter IV, formerly known as the Davis Bacon Act, subpart  22.4), that require performance in whole or in part within the United States (the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Johnston Island, Wake Island, and the outer Continental Shelf as defined in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331, et seq.)). When performance is in part within and in part outside the United States, this subpart applies to the part of the contract that is performed within the United States. (b) (b) (c) (c) Agency Labor Advisors, as defined at 22.001, are listed at https://www.sam.gov, and are available to provide guidance and assistance with the application of this subpart.
22.404-9 Award of contract without required wage determination. (a) (a) If a contract is awarded without the required wage determination (i.e., incorporating no determination, containing a clearly inapplicable general wage determination, or containing a project determination which is inapplicable because of an inaccurate description of the project or its location), the contracting officer shall initiate action to incorporate the required determination in the contract immediately upon discovery of the error. If a required wage determination (valid determination in effect on the date of award) is not available, the contracting officer shall expeditiously request a wage determination from the Department of Labor, including a statement explaining the circumstances and giving the date of the contract award. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall-
31.205-41 Taxes. (a) (a) The following types of costs are allowable: (b) (b) The following types of costs are not allowable: (c) (c) Taxes on property (see paragraph (b)(5) of this section) used solely in connection with either non-Government or Government work should be considered directly applicable to the respective category of work unless the amounts involved are insignificant or comparable results would otherwise be obtained; e.g., taxes on contractor-owned work-in-process which is used solely in connection with non-Government work should be allocated to such work; taxes on contractor-owned work-in-process inventory (and Government-owned work-in-process inventory when taxed) used solely in connection with Government work should be charged to such work. The cost of taxes incurred on property used in both Government and non-Government work shall be apportioned to all such work based upon the use of such property on the respective final cost objectives. (d) (d) Any taxes, interest, or penalties that were allowed as contract costs and are refunded to the contractor shall be credited or paid to the Government in the manner it directs. If a contractor or subcontractor obtains a foreign tax credit that reduces its U.S. Federal income tax because of the payment of any tax or duty allowed as contract costs, and if those costs were reimbursed by a foreign government, the amount of the reduction shall be paid to the Treasurer of the United States at the time the Federal income tax return is filed. However, any interest actually paid or credited to a contractor incident to a refund of tax, interest, or penalty shall be paid or credited to the Government only to the extent that such interest accrued over the period during which the contractor had been reimbursed by the Government for the taxes, interest, or penalties.
47.201 Definitions. No subsections found.
22.808 Complaints. No subsections found.
52.247-17 Charges. No subsections found.
37.504 Contracting officials’ responsibilities. No subsections found.
Part 32 - Contract Financing No subsections found.
53.248 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.232-24 Prohibition of Assignment of Claims. No subsections found.
18.101 General. No subsections found.
52.209-3 First Article Approval-Contractor Testing. (a) (a) The Contractor shall test _____ unit(s) of Lot/Item _____ as specified in this contract. At least _____ calendar days before the beginning of first article tests, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, of the time and location of the testing so that the Government may witness the tests. (b) (b) The Contractor shall submit the first article test report within _____ calendar days from the date of this contract to _____ [insert address of the Government activity to receive the report] marked "First Article Test Report: Contract No. _______, Lot/Item No. _______" Within _____ calendar days after the Government receives the test report, the Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor, in writing, of the conditional approval, approval, or disapproval of the first article. The notice of conditional approval or approval shall not relieve the Contractor from complying with all requirements of the specifications and all other terms and conditions of this contract. A notice of conditional approval shall state any further action required of the Contractor. A notice of disapproval shall cite reasons for the disapproval. (c) (c) If the first article is disapproved, the Contractor, upon Government request, shall repeat any or all first article tests. After each request for additional tests, the Contractor shall make any necessary changes, modifications, or repairs to the first article or select another first article for testing. All costs related to these tests are to be borne by the Contractor, including any and all costs for additional tests following a disapproval. The Contractor shall then conduct the tests and deliver another report to the Government under the terms and conditions and within the time specified by the Government. The Government shall take action on this report within the time specified in paragraph (b) of this subsection. The Government reserves the right to require an equitable adjustment of the contract price for any extension of the delivery schedule, or for any additional costs to the Government related to these tests. (d) (d) If the Contractor fails to deliver any first article report on time, or the Contracting Officer disapproves any first article, the Contractor shall be deemed to have failed to make delivery within the meaning of the Default clause of this contract. (e) (e) Unless otherwise provided in the contract, and if the approved first article is not consumed or destroyed in testing, the Contractor may deliver the approved first article as part of the contract quantity if it meets all contract requirements for acceptance. (f) (f) If the Government does not act within the time specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this subsection, the Contracting Officer shall, upon timely written request from the Contractor, equitably adjust under the changes clause of this contract the delivery or performance dates and/or the contract price, and any other contractual term affected by the delay. (g) (g) Before first article approval, the acquisition of materials or components for, or the commencement of production of, the balance of the contract quantity is at the sole risk of the Contractor. Before first article approval, the costs thereof shall not be allocable to this contract for (1) progress payments, or (2) termination settlements if the contract is terminated for the convenience of the Government. (h) (h) The Government may waive the requirement for first article approval test where supplies identical or similar to those called for in the schedule have been previously furnished by the offeror/contractor and have been accepted by the Government. The offeror/contractor may request a waiver.
9.501 Definition. No subsections found.
Subpart 46.1 - General No subsections found.
46.310 [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.503-1 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.222-47 [Reserved] No subsections found.
5.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
32.503-15 Application of Government title terms. (a) (a) Property to which the Government obtains title by operation of the Progress Payments clause solely is not, as a consequence, Government-furnished property. (b) (b) Although property title is vested in the Government under the Progress Payments clause, the acquisition, handling, and disposition of certain types of property are governed by- (c) (c) The contractor may sell or otherwise dispose of current production scrap in the ordinary course of business on its own volition, even if title has vested in the Government under the Progress Payments clause. The contracting officer shall require the contractor to credit the costs of the contract performance with the proceeds of the scrap disposition. (d) (d) When the title to materials or other inventories is vested in the Government under the Progress Payments clause, the contractor may transfer the inventory items from the contract for its own use or other disposition only if, and on terms, approved by the contracting officer. The contractor shall- (e) (e) If excess property remains after the contract performance is complete and all contractor obligations under the contract are satisfied, including full liquidation of progress payments, the excess property is outside the scope of the Progress Payments clause. Therefore, the contractor holds title to it.
15.101-3 	Tiered evaluation of small business offers. No subsections found.
49.101 Authorities and responsibilities. (a) (a) The termination clauses or other contract clauses authorize contracting officers to terminate contracts for convenience, or for default, and to enter into settlement agreements under this regulation. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall terminate contracts, whether for default or convenience, only when it is in the Government’s interest. The contracting officer shall effect a no-cost settlement instead of issuing a termination notice when- (c) (c) When the price of the undelivered balance of the contract is less than $5,000, the contract should not normally be terminated for convenience but should be permitted to run to completion. (d) (d) After the contracting officer issues a notice of termination, the termination contracting officer (TCO) is responsible for negotiating any settlement with the contractor, including a no-cost settlement if appropriate. Auditors and TCO’s shall promptly schedule and complete audit reviews and negotiations, giving particular attention to the need for timely action on all settlements involving small business concerns. (e) (e) If the same item is under contract with both large and small business concerns and it is necessary to terminate for convenience part of the units still to be delivered, preference shall be given to the continuing performance of small business contracts over large business contracts unless the chief of the contracting office determines that this is not in the Government’s interest. (f) (f) The contracting officer is responsible for the release of excess funds resulting from the termination unless this responsibility is specifically delegated to the TCO.
14.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
8.406-3 Remedies for nonconformance. (a) (a) If a contractor delivers a supply or service, but it does not conform to the order requirements, the ordering activity shall take appropriate action in accordance with the inspection and acceptance clause of the contract, as supplemented by the order. (b) (b) If the contractor fails to perform an order, or take appropriate corrective action, the ordering activity may terminate the order for cause or modify the order to establish a new delivery date (after obtaining consideration, as appropriate). Ordering activities shall follow the procedures at 8.406-4 when terminating an order for cause.
52.247-3 Capability to Perform a Contract for the Relocation of a Federal Office. (a) (a) If the move specified in this contract is to be performed by the Contractor as a carrier within the borders of more than one State, including the District of Columbia, (i.e., an interstate move), the Contractor shall have obtained and hold appropriate and current operating authority from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. (b) (b) (c) (c) If the move specified in this contract will not be performed by the Contractor as carrier, it must be performed for the Contractor by a carrier operating under a subcontract with the Contractor. In this case, the Contractor shall not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this clause, but shall be responsible for requiring and ensuring that the subcontractor carrier complies with those requirements in every respect. (d) (d) The Contractor shall be in compliance with the applicable requirements of this clause at least 14 days before the date on which performance of the contract shall commence under the terms specified; except that, if the period from the date of award of the contract to the date that performance shall commence is less than 28 days, the Contractor shall comply with the applicable requirements of this clause midway between the time of award and the time of commencement of performance.
32.112 Nonpayment of subcontractors under contracts other than for commercial products and commercial services. No subsections found.
Subpart 19.3 - Determination of Small	Business Size and Status for Small Business Programs No subsections found.
42.709-5 Computing Interest. (a) (a) Consider the overpayment to have occurred, and interest to have begun accumulating, from the midpoint of the contractor’s fiscal year. Use an alternate equitable method if the cost was not paid evenly over the fiscal year. (b) (b) Use the interest rate specified by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Pub.L.92-41 (85 Stat. 97). (c) (c) Compute interest from the date of overpayment to the date of the demand letter for payment of the penalty. (d) (d) Determine the paid portion of the disallowed costs in consultation with the contract auditor.
14.201-8 Price related factors. (a) (a) Foreseeable costs or delays to the Government resulting from such factors as differences in inspection, locations of supplies, and transportation. If bids are on an f.o.b. origin basis (see 47.303 and 47.305), transportation costs to the designated points shall be considered in determining the lowest cost to the Government. (b) (b) Changes made, or requested by the bidder, in any of the provisions of the invitation for bids, if the change does not constitute a ground for rejection under 14.404. (c) (c) Advantages or disadvantages to the Government that might result from making more than one award (see 14.201-6(q)). The contracting officer shall assume, for the purpose of making multiple awards, that $500 would be the administrative cost to the Government for issuing and administering each contract awarded under a solicitation. Individual awards shall be for the items or combinations of items that result in the lowest aggregate cost to the Government, including the assumed administrative costs. (d) (d) Federal, state, and local taxes (see part  29). (e) (e) Origin of supplies, and, if foreign, the application of the Buy American statute or any other prohibition on foreign purchases (see part  25).
23.107-4 Products that contain, use, or are manufactured with ozone-depleting substances or products that contain or use high global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons. (a) (a) Authorities. (b) (b) Program. The EPA SNAP Program. (c) (c) Agency program s. Agencies shall implement cost-effective programs to minimize the procurement of materials and substances that contribute to the depletion of stratospheric ozone and/or result in the use, release, or emission of high global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons. (d) (d) Procedures. Agencies shall— (e) (e) Resource. Refer to EPA's SNAP program website at https://www.epa.gov/​snap for the list of alternatives found at 40 CFR part 82, subpart G, as well as supplemental tables of alternatives.
47.301-2 Participation of transportation officers. No subsections found.
23.402 Authorities. (a) (a) Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. 11001-11050 (EPCRA). (b) (b) Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 13101-13109 (PPA). (c) (c) Executive Order 14057, Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability, dated December 8, 2021.
31.602 General. No subsections found.
10.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
52.247-62 Specific Quantities	Unknown. (a) (a) For	the purpose of evaluating "f.o.b. destination" offers, the Government	estimates that the quantity specified will be shipped to the destinations	indicated: (b) (b) If the quantity	shipped to each destination varies from the quantity estimated,	and if the variation results in a change in the transportation costs,	appropriate adjustment shall be- made.
1.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.208-4 Vehicle Lease Payments. (a) (a) Upon the submission of proper invoices or vouchers, the Government shall pay rent for each vehicle at the rate(s) specified in this contract. (b) (b) Rent shall accrue from the beginning of this contract, or from the date each vehicle is delivered to the Government, whichever is later, and shall continue until the expiration of the contract term or the termination of this contract. However, rent shall accrue only for the period that each vehicle is in the possession of the Government. (c) (c) Rent shall not accrue for any vehicle that the Contracting Officer determines does not comply with the Condition of Leased Vehicles clause of this contract or otherwise does not comply with the requirements of this contract, until the vehicle is replaced or the defects are corrected. (d) (d) Rent shall not accrue for any vehicle during any period when the vehicle is unavailable or unusable as a result of the Contractor’s failure to render services for the operation and maintenance of the vehicle as prescribed by this contract. (e) (e) Rent stated in monthly terms shall be prorated on the basis of 1/30 th of the monthly rate for each day the vehicle is in the Government’s possession. If this contract contains a mileage provision, the Government shall pay rent as provided in the Schedule.
25.301-4 Contract clause. (a) (a) In	a designated operational area during– (b) (b) When supporting	a diplomatic or consular mission–
36.512 Cleaning up. No subsections found.
9.406 Debarment. No subsections found.
31.205-34 Recruitment costs. (a) (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this subsection, the following costs are allowable: (b) (b) Help-wanted advertising costs are unallowable if the advertising-
52.219-17 Section 8(a) Award. (a) (a) By execution of a contract, the Small Business Administration (SBA) agrees to the following: (b) (b) The offeror/subcontractor agrees and acknowledges that it will, for and on behalf of the SBA, fulfill and perform all of the requirements of the contract.
52.219-6 Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside. (a) (a) Definition. Small business concern, as used in this clause— (b) (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to- (c) (c) General.
52.227-22 Major System-Minimum Rights. No subsections found.
32.009-2 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.225-12 Notice of Buy American Requirement-Construction Materials Under Trade Agreements. (a) (a) Definitions. "Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "construction material," "designated country construction material," "domestic construction material," and "foreign construction material," as used in this provision, are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American-Construction Materials Under Trade Agreements" (Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clause 52.225-11). (b) (b) Requests for determination of inapplicability. An offeror requesting a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy American statute should submit the request to the Contracting Officer in time to allow a determination before submission of offers. The offeror shall include the information and applicable supporting data required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of FAR clause 52.225-11 in the request. If an offeror has not requested a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy American statute before submitting its offer, or has not received a response to a previous request, the offeror shall include the information and supporting data in the offer. (c) (c) Evaluation of offers. (d) (d) Alternate offers.
52.246-4 Inspection of Services-Fixed-Price. (a) (a) Definition."Services," as used in this clause, includes services performed, workmanship, and material furnished or utilized in the performance of services. (b) (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all times and places during the term of the contract. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) (d) If the Government performs inspections or tests on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, and shall require subcontractors to furnish, at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (e) (e) If any of the services do not conform with contract requirements, the Government may require the Contractor to perform the services again in conformity with contract requirements, at no increase in contract amount. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by reperformance, the Government may- (f) (f) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or to take the necessary action to ensure future performance in conformity with contract requirements, the Government may-
53.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 1.6 - Career Development, Contracting Authority, and Responsibilities No subsections found.
52.228-9 Cargo Insurance. (a) (a) The Contractor, at the Contractor’s expense, shall provide and maintain, during the continuance of this contract, cargo insurance of $______ per vehicle to cover the value of property on each vehicle and of $_______ to cover the total value of the property in the shipment. (b) (b) All insurance shall be written on companies acceptable to ____________ [insert name of contracting agency], and policies shall include such terms and conditions as required by __________ [insert name of contracting agency]. The Contractor shall provide evidence of acceptable cargo insurance to ____________ [insert name of contracting agency] before commencing operations under this contract. (c) (c) Each cargo insurance policy shall include the following statement:
16.306 Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts. (a) (a) Description. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract is a cost-reimbursement contract that provides for payment to the contractor of a negotiated fee that is fixed at the inception of the contract. The fixed fee does not vary with actual cost, but may be adjusted as a result of changes in the work to be performed under the contract. This contract type permits contracting for efforts that might otherwise present too great a risk to contractors, but it provides the contractor only a minimum incentive to control costs. (b) (b) Application. (c) (c) Limitations. No cost-plus-fixed-fee contract shall be awarded unless the contracting officer complies with all limitations in 15.404-4(c)(4)(i) and 16.301-3. (d) (d) Completion and term forms. A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract may take one of two basic forms-completion or term.
14.202-6 Final review of invitations for bids. No subsections found.
29.302 Application of State	and local taxes to the Government. (a) (a) Generally, purchases and leases	made by the Federal Government are immune from State and local taxation.	Whether any specific purchase or lease is immune, how-ever, is a	legal question requiring advice and assistance of the agency-designated	counsel. (b) (b) When it	is economically feasible to do so, executive agencies shall take	maximum advantage of all exemptions from State and local taxation	that may be available. If appropriate, the contracting officer shall	provide a Standard Form 1094,	U.S. Tax Exemption Form (see part  53),	or other evidence listed in 29.305(a)	to establish that the purchase is being made by the Government.
33.104 Protests to GAO. (a) (a) General procedure. (b) (b) Protests before award. (c) (c) Protests after award. (d) (d) Findings and notice. If the decision is to proceed with contract award, or continue contract performance under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall include the written findings or other required documentation in the file. The contracting officer also shall give written notice of the decision to the protester and other interested parties. (e) (e) Hearings. The GAO may hold a hearing at the request of the agency, a protester, or other interested party who has responded to the notice in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. A recording or transcription of the hearing will normally be made, and copies may be obtained from the GAO. All parties may file comments on the hearing and the agency report within 5 days of the hearing. (f) (f) GAO decision time. GAO issues its recommendation on a protest within 100 days from the date of filing of the protest with the GAO, or within 65 days under the express option. The GAO attempts to issue its recommendation on an amended protest that adds a new ground of protest within the time limit of the initial protest. If an amended protest cannot be resolved within the initial time limit, the GAO may resolve the amended protest through an express option. (g) (g) Notice to GAO. If the agency has not fully implemented the GAO recommendations with respect to a solicitation for a contract or an award or a proposed award of a contract within 60 days of receiving the GAO recommendations, the head of the contracting activity responsible for that contract shall report the failure to the GAO not later than 5 days after the expiration of the 60-day period. The report shall explain the reasons why the GAO’s recommendation, exclusive of costs, has not been followed by the agency. (h) (h) Award of costs.
42.802 Contract clause. No subsections found.
12.601 General. (a) (a)This subpart provides optional procedures for— (b) (b)These procedures are intended to simplify the process of preparing and issuing solicitations and evaluating offers for commercial products or commercial services consistent with customary commercial practices.
17.106-2 Solicitations. (a) (a) The requirements, by item of supply or service, for the- (b) (b) Criteria for comparing the lowest evaluated submission on the first program year requirements to the lowest evaluated submission on the multi-year requirements. (c) (c) A provision that, if the Government determines before award that only the first program year requirements are needed, the Government’s evaluation of the price or estimated cost and fee shall consider only the firstyear. (d) (d) A provision specifying a separate cancellation ceiling (on a percentage or dollar basis) and dates applicable to each program year subject to a cancellation (see 17.106-1(c) and (d)). (e) (e) A statement that award will not be made on less than the first program year requirements. (f) (f) The Government’s administrative costs of annual contracting may be used as a factor in the evaluation only if they can be reasonably established and are stated in the solicitation. (g) (g) The cancellation ceiling shall not be an evaluation factor.
3.201 Applicability. No subsections found.
Part 47 - Transportation No subsections found.
47.306 Transportation factors in the evaluation of offers. No subsections found.
52.222-32 Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Price Adjustment (Actual Method). (a) (a) The wage determination issued under the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute by the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, that is effective for an option to extend the term of the contract, will apply to that option period. (b) (b) (c) (c) The Contracting Officer will adjust the contract price or contract unit price labor rates to reflect the Contractor’s actual increase or decrease in wages and fringe benefits to the extent that the increase is made to comply with, or the decrease is voluntarily made by the Contractor as a result of— (d) (d) Any adjustment will be limited to increases or decreases in wages and fringe benefits as described in paragraph (c) of this clause, and the accompanying increases or decreases in social security and unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation insurance, but will not otherwise include any amount for general and administrative costs, overhead, or profit. (e) (e) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any increase claimed under this clause within 30 days after receiving a revised wage determination unless this notification period is extended in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer promptly of any decrease under this clause, but nothing in this clause precludes the Government from asserting a claim within the period permitted by law. The notice shall contain a statement of the amount claimed and any relevant supporting data, including payroll records that the Contracting Officer may reasonably require. Upon agreement of the parties, the Contracting Officer will modify the contract price or contract unit price in writing. The Contractor shall continue performance pending agreement on or determination of any such adjustment and its effective date. (f) (f) Contract price adjustment computations shall be computed as follows:
52.246-12 Inspection of Construction. (a) (a) Definition."Work" includes, but is not limited to, materials, workmanship, and manufacture and fabrication of components. (b) (b) The Contractor shall maintain an adequate inspection system and perform such inspections as will ensure that the work performed under the contract conforms to contract requirements. The Contractor shall maintain complete inspection records and make them available to the Government. All work shall be conducted under the general direction of the Contracting Officer and is subject to Government inspection and test at all places and at all reasonable times before acceptance to ensure strict compliance with the terms of the contract. (c) (c) Government inspections and tests are for the sole benefit of the Government and do not- (d) (d) The presence or absence of a Government inspector does not relieve the Contractor from any contract requirement, nor is the inspector authorized to change any term or condition of the specification without the Contracting Officer’s written authorization. (e) (e) The Contractor shall promptly furnish, at no increase in contract price, all facilities, labor, and material reasonably needed for performing such safe and convenient inspections and tests as may be required by the Contracting Officer. The Government may charge to the Contractor any additional cost of inspection or test when work is not ready at the time specified by the Contractor for inspection or test, or when prior rejection makes reinspection or retest necessary. The Government shall perform all inspections and tests in a manner that will not unnecessarily delay the work. Special, full size, and performance tests shall be performed as described in the contract. (f) (f) The Contractor shall, without charge, replace or correct work found by the Government not to conform to contract requirements, unless in the public interest the Government consents to accept the work with an appropriate adjustment in contract price. The Contractor shall promptly segregate and remove rejected material from the premises. (g) (g) If the Contractor does not promptly replace or correct rejected work, the Government may- (h) (h) If, before acceptance of the entire work, the Government decides to examine already completed work by removing it or tearing it out, the Contractor, on request, shall promptly furnish all necessary facilities, labor, and material. If the work is found to be defective or nonconforming in any material respect due to the fault of the Contractor or its subcontractors, the Contractor shall defray the expenses of the examination and of satisfactory reconstruction. However, if the work is found to meet contract requirements, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment for the additional services involved in the examination and reconstruction, including, if completion of the work was thereby delayed, an extension of time. (i) (i) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Government shall accept, as promptly as practicable after completion and inspection, all work required by the contract or that portion of the work the Contracting Officer determines can be accepted separately. Acceptance shall be final and conclusive except for latent defects, fraud, gross mistakes amounting to fraud, or the Government’s rights under any warranty or guarantee.
37.403 Contract clause. No subsections found.
25.603 Exceptions. (a) (a) (b) (b) Determinations. When a determination is made, for any of the reasons stated in this section, that certain foreign construction materials may be used- (c) (c) Acquisitions under trade agreements.
22.1101 Applicability. No subsections found.
6.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
52.203-8 Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity. (a) (a) If the Government receives information that a contractor or a person has violated 41 U.S.C. 2102-2104, Restrictions on Obtaining and Disclosing Certain Information, the Government may- (b) (b) If the Government rescinds the contract under paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government is entitled to recover, in addition to any penalty prescribed by law, the amount expended under the contract. (c) (c) The rights and remedies of the Government specified herein are not exclusive, and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law, regulation, or under this contract.
32.602 Responsibilities. (a) (a) The contracting officer has primary responsibility for identifying and demanding payment of contract debts except those resulting from errors made by the payment office. The contracting officer shall not collect contract debts or otherwise agree to liquidate contract debts (e.g., offset the amount of the debt against existing unpaid bills due the contractor, or allow contractors to retain contract debts to cover amounts that may become payable in future periods). (b) (b) The payment office has primary responsibility for-
19.812 Contract administration. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall assign contract administration functions, as required, based on the location of the 8(a) contractor (see Federal Directory of Contract Administration Services Components (available via the Internet at https://piee.eb.mil/pcm/xhtml/unauth/index.xhtml )). (b) (b) The agency shall distribute copies of the contract(s) in accordance with part  4. All contracts and modifications, if any, shall be distributed to both the SBA and the 8(a) contractor in accordance with the timeframes set forth in 4.201. (c) (c) To the extent consistent with the contracting activity’s capability and resources, 8(a) contractors furnishing requirements shall be afforded production and technical assistance, including, when appropriate, identification of causes of deficiencies in their products and suggested corrective action to make such products acceptable. (d) (d) For 8(a) contracts exceeding 5 years including options, the contracting officer shall verify in DSBS or SAM that the concern is an SBA-certified 8(a) participant no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract. If the concern is not an SBA-certified 8(a) participant, the contracting officer shall not exercise the option (see 13 CFR 124.521(e)(2)). (e) (e) An 8(a) contract, whether in the base or an option year, must be terminated for convenience if the 8(a) contractor to which it was awarded transfers ownership or control of the firm or if the contract is transferred or novated for any reason to another firm, unless the Administrator of the SBA waives the requirement for contract termination (13 CFR 124.515). The Administrator may waive the termination requirement only if certain conditions exist. Moreover, a waiver of the requirement for termination is permitted only if the 8(a) contractor's request for waiver is made to the SBA prior to the actual relinquishment of ownership or control, except in the case of death or incapacity where the waiver must be submitted within 60 calendar days after such an occurrence. The clauses in the contract entitled "Special 8(a) Contract Conditions" and "Special 8(a) Subcontract Conditions" require the SBA and the 8(a) subcontractor to notify the contracting officer when ownership of the firm is being transferred. When the contracting officer receives information that an 8(a) contractor is planning to transfer ownership or control to another firm, the contracting officer shall take action immediately to preserve the option of waiving the termination requirement. The contracting officer shall determine the timing of the proposed transfer and its effect on contract performance and mission support. If the contracting officer determines that the SBA does not intend to waive the termination requirement, and termination of the contract would severely impair attainment of the agency's program objectives or mission, the contracting officer shall immediately notify the SBA in writing that the agency is requesting a waiver. Within 15 business days thereafter, or such longer period as agreed to by the agency and the SBA, the agency head must either confirm or withdraw the request for waiver. Unless a waiver is approved by the SBA, the contracting officer must terminate the contract for convenience upon receipt of a written request by the SBA. This requirement for a convenience termination does not affect the Government's right to terminate for default if the cause for termination of an 8(a) contract is other than the transfer of ownership or control.
4.1008 Solicitation provision. No subsections found.
45.604-2 Use of GSA sponsored sales centers. No subsections found.
52.216-27 Single or Multiple Awards. No subsections found.
52.214-17 [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.105-1 Advance payment bonds. No subsections found.
52.228-12 Prospective Subcontractor Requests for Bonds. No subsections found.
52.232-7 Payments under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts. (a) (a) Hourly rate. (b) (b) Materials. (c) (c) If the Contractor enters into any subcontract that requires consent under the clause at 52.244-2, Subcontracts, without obtaining such consent, the Government is not required to reimburse the Contractor for any costs incurred under the subcontract prior to the date the Contractor obtains the required consent. Any reimbursement of subcontract costs incurred prior to the date the consent was obtained shall be at the sole discretion of the Government. (d) (d) Total cost. It is estimated that the total cost to the Government for the performance of this contract shall not exceed the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule, and the Contractor agrees to use its best efforts to perform the work specified in the Schedule and all obligations under this contract within such ceiling price. If at any time the Contractor has reason to believe that the hourly rate payments and material costs that will accrue in performing this contract in the next succeeding 30 days, if added to all other payments and costs previously accrued, will exceed 85 percent of the ceiling price in the Schedule, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer giving a revised estimate of the total price to the Government for performing this contract with supporting reasons and documentation. If at any time during performing this contract, the Contractor has reason to believe that the total price to the Government for performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the then stated ceiling price, the Contractor shall so notify the Contracting Officer, giving a revised estimate of the total price for performing this contract, with supporting reasons and documentation. If at any time during performing this contract, the Government has reason to believe that the work to be required in performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the stated ceiling price, the Contracting Officer will so advise the Contractor, giving the then revised estimate of the total amount of effort to be required under the contract. (e) (e) Ceiling price. The Government will not be obligated to pay the Contractor any amount in excess of the ceiling price in the Schedule, and the Contractor shall not be obligated to continue performance if to do so would exceed the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule, unless and until the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor in writing that the ceiling price has been increased and specifies in the notice a revised ceiling that shall constitute the ceiling price for performance under this contract. When and to the extent that the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule has been increased, any hours expended and material costs incurred by the Contractor in excess of the ceiling price before the increase shall be allowable to the same extent as if the hours expended and material costs had been incurred after the increase in the ceiling price. (f) (f) Audit. At any time before final payment under this contract, the Contracting Officer may request audit of the vouchers and supporting documentation. Each payment previously made shall be subject to reduction to the extent of amounts, on preceding vouchers, that are found by the Contracting Officer or authorized representative not to have been properly payable and shall also be subject to reduction for overpayments or to increase for underpayments. Upon receipt and approval of the voucher designated by the Contractor as the "completion voucher" and supporting documentation, and upon compliance by the Contractor with all terms of this contract (including, without limitation, terms relating to patents and the terms of paragraph (g) of this clause), the Government shall promptly pay any balance due the Contractor. The completion voucher, and supporting documentation, shall be submitted by the Contractor as promptly as practicable following completion of the work under this contract, but in no event later than 120 days (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may approve in writing) from the date of completion. (g) (g) Assignment and Release of Claims. The Contractor, and each assignee under an assignment entered into under this contract and in effect at the time of final payment under this contract, shall execute and deliver, at the time of and as a condition precedent to final payment under this contract, a release discharging the Government, its officers, agents, and employees of and from all liabilities, obligations, and claims arising out of or under this contract, subject only to the following exceptions: (h) (h) Interim payments on contracts for other than services. (i) (i) Interim payments on contracts for services. For interim payments made prior to the final payment under this contract, the Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part 1315.
44.201 Consent and advance notification requirements. No subsections found.
Subpart 11.1 - Selecting and Developing Requirements Documents No subsections found.
52.223-5 Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Federal facilities are required to comply with the provisions of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) (42 U.S.C. 11001-11050), and the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (PPA) (42 U.S.C. 13101-13109). (c) (c) The Contractor shall provide all information needed by the Federal facility to comply with the following:
Subpart 8.3 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
4.1201 Policy. (a) (a) Offerors and quoters are required to complete electronic annual representations and certifications in SAM accessed via https://www.sam.gov as a part of required registration (see FAR 4.1102). (b) (b) (c) (c) Data in SAM is archived and is electronically retrievable. Therefore, when a prospective contractor has completed representations and certifications electronically in SAM, the contracting officer must reference the date of SAM verification in the contract file to satisfy contract file documentation requirements of 4.803(a)(11). However, if an offeror identifies changes to SAM data pursuant to the FAR provisions at 52.204-8(d) or 52.212-3(b), the contracting officer must include a copy of the changes in the contract file. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall incorporate the representations and certifications by reference in the contract (see 52.204-19, or for acquisitions of commercial products or commercial services see 52.212-4(v)).
14.103-1 General. (a) (a) Sealed bidding shall be used whenever the conditions in 6.401(a) are met. This requirement applies to any proposed contract action under part  6. (b) (b) Sealed bidding may be used for classified acquisitions if its use does not violate agency security requirements. (c) (c) The policy for pricing modifications of sealed bid contract appears in 15.403-4(a)(1)(iii).
Subpart 22.7 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.201-1 Acquisition 360: Voluntary Survey. (a) (a)All actual and potential offerors are encouraged to provide feedback on the preaward and debriefing processes, as applicable. Feedback may be provided to agencies up to 45 days after award. The feedback is anonymous, unless the participant self-identifies in the survey. Actual and potential offerors can participate in the survey by selecting the following link: https://www.acquisition.gov/​360. (b) (b)The Contracting Officer will not review the information provided until after contract award and will not consider it in the award decision. The survey is voluntary and does not convey any protections, rights, or grounds for protest. It creates a way for actual and potential offerors to provide the Government constructive feedback about the preaward and debriefing processes, as applicable, used for a specific acquisition.
49.108-6 Delay in settling subcontractor settlement proposals. No subsections found.
15.201 Exchanges with industry before receipt of proposals. (a) (a) Exchanges of information among all interested parties, from the earliest identification of a requirement through receipt of proposals, are encouraged. Any exchange of information must be consistent with procurement integrity requirements (see 3.104). Interested parties include potential offerors, end users, Government acquisition and supporting personnel, and others involved in the conduct or outcome of the acquisition. (b) (b) The purpose of exchanging information is to improve the understanding of Government requirements and industry capabilities, thereby allowing potential offerors to judge whether or how they can satisfy the Government’s requirements, and enhancing the Government’s ability to obtain quality supplies and services, including construction, at reasonable prices, and increase efficiency in proposal preparation, proposal evaluation, negotiation, and contract award. (c) (c) Agencies are encouraged to promote early exchanges of information about future acquisitions. An early exchange of information among industry and the program manager, contracting officer, and other participants in the acquisition process can identify and resolve concerns regarding the acquisition strategy, including proposed contract type, terms and conditions, and acquisition planning schedules; the feasibility of the requirement, including performance requirements, statements of work, and data requirements; the suitability of the proposal instructions and evaluation criteria, including the approach for assessing past performance information; the availability of reference documents; and any other industry concerns or questions. Some techniques to promote early exchanges of information are- (d) (d) The special notices of procurement matters at 5.205(c), or electronic notices, may be used to publicize the Government’s requirement or solicit information from industry. (e) (e) RFIs may be used when the Government does not presently intend to award a contract, but wants to obtain price, delivery, other market information, or capabilities for planning purposes. Responses to these notices are not offers and cannot be accepted by the Government to form a binding contract. There is no required format for RFIs. (f) (f) General information about agency mission needs and future requirements may be disclosed at any time. After release of the solicitation, the contracting officer must be the focal point of any exchange with potential offerors. When specific information about a proposed acquisition that would be necessary for the preparation of proposals is disclosed to one or more potential offerors, that information must be made available to the public as soon as practicable, but no later than the next general release of information, in order to avoid creating an unfair competitive advantage. Information provided to a potential offeror in response to its request must not be disclosed if doing so would reveal the potential offeror’s confidential business strategy, and is protected under 3.104 or subpart  24.2. When conducting a presolicitation or preproposal conference, materials distributed at the conference should be made available to all potential offerors, upon request.
4.601 Definitions. No subsections found.
14.408-5 [Reserved] No subsections found.
47.207-3 Description of shipment, origin, and destination. (a) (a) Origin of shipments. The contracting officer shall include in solicitations full details regarding the location from which the freight is to be shipped. For example, if a single location is shown, furnish the shipper’s name, street address, city, State, and ZIP code. If several or indefinite locations are involved, as in the case of multiple shippers or drayage contracts, describe the area of origin including boundaries and ZIP codes. (b) (b) Destination of shipments. The contracting officer shall include full details regarding delivery points. For example, if a single delivery point is shown, furnish the consignee’s name, street address, city, State, and ZIP code. If several or indefinite delivery points are involved, describe the delivery area, including boundaries and ZIP codes. (c) (c) Description of the freight. The contracting officer shall include in solicitations- (d) (d) Exclusion of freight. The contracting officer shall- (e) (e) Quantity.
22.1308 Complaint procedures. No subsections found.
52.222-48 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Certification. (a) (a) The offeror shall check the following certification: (b) (b) Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services. If the offeror certifies to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this provision, and the Contracting Officer determines in accordance with FAR 22.1003-4(c)(3) that the Service Contract Labor Standards statute- (c) (c) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this provision- (d) (d) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror, if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (a) of this provision or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (c) of this provision.
52.224 [Reserved] No subsections found.
12.500 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) As required by 41 U.S.C. 1906 and 1907, this subpart lists provisions of law that are not applicable to- (b) (b) This subpart also lists provisions of law that have been amended to eliminate or modify their applicability to either contracts or subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
49.304-3 Submission of vouchers. No subsections found.
25.502 Application. (a) (a) Unless otherwise specified in agency regulations, perform the following steps in the order presented: (b) (b) For acquisitions covered by the WTO GPA (see subpart  25.4)- (c) (c) For acquisitions not covered by the WTO GPA, but subject to the Buy American statute (an FTA or the Israeli Trade Act also may apply), the following applies: (d) (d) Ties.
53.247 Transportation (U.S. Commercial Bill of Lading). No subsections found.
44.201-1 Consent requirements. (a) (a) If the contractor has an approved purchasing system, consent is required for subcontracts specifically identified by the contracting officer in the subcontracts clause of the contract. The contracting officer may require consent to subcontract if the contracting officer has determined that an individual consent action is required to protect the Government adequately because of the subcontract type, complexity, or value, or because the subcontract needs special surveillance. These can be subcontracts for critical systems, subsystems, components, or services. Subcontracts may be identified by subcontract number or by class of items (e.g., subcontracts for engines on a prime contract for air-frames). (b) (b) If the contractor does not have an approved purchasing system, consent to subcontract is required for cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, labor-hour, or letter contracts, and also for unpriced actions (including unpriced modifications and unpriced delivery orders) under fixed-price contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, for- (c) (c) Consent may be required for subcontracts under prime contracts for architect-engineer services. (d) (d) The contracting officer’s written authorization for the contractor to purchase from Government sources (see part  51) constitutes consent.
32.1105 Assignment of claims. No subsections found.
14.201-7 Contract clauses. (a) (a) When contracting by sealed bidding, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.214-26, Audit and Records-Sealed Bidding, in solicitations and contracts as follows: (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) When contracting by sealed bidding the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.214-29, Order of Precedence-Sealed Bidding, in solicitations and contracts to which the uniform contract format applies.
27.304-3 Subcontracts. (a) (a) The policies and procedures in this subpart apply to all subcontracts at any tier. (b) (b) Whenever a prime contractor or a subcontractor considers including a particular clause in a subcontract to be inappropriate or a subcontractor refuses to accept the clause, the contracting officer, in consultation with counsel, shall resolve the matter. (c) (c) It is Government policy that contractors shall not use their ability to award subcontracts as economic leverage to acquire rights for themselves in inventions resulting from subcontracts.
52.247-25 Government-Furnished Equipment With or Without Operators. No subsections found.
19.1503 Status. (a) (a) Status as an EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program is determined by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. (b) (b) For a WOSB that seeks a WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole-source contract, the contracting officer shall verify that the offeror— (c) (c) If there is a decision issued by SBA as a result of a current eligibility examination finding that the concern did not qualify as an EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, the contracting officer may terminate the contract, and shall not exercise any option, or award further task or delivery orders. Agencies shall not count or include the award toward the small business goals for an EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and must update FPDS from the date of award to reflect the final SBA decision. (d) (d) A joint venture may be considered an EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program if the EDWOSB or WOSB participant is certified in SAM (see section 19.1505(d) for set-aside procedures) and the joint venture meets the requirements of 13 CFR 127.506.
33.205 Relationship of the Disputes statute to Pub. L.85-804. (a) (a) Requests for relief under Public Law85-804 (50 U.S.C. 1431-1435) are not claims within the Disputes statute or the Disputes clause at 52.233-1, Disputes, and shall be processed under subpart  50.1, Extraordinary Contractual Actions. However, relief formerly available only under Public Law85-804; i.e., legal entitlement to rescission or reformation for mutual mistake, is now available within the authority of the contracting officer under the Contract Disputes statute and the Disputes clause. In case of a question whether the contracting officer has authority to settle or decide specific types of claims, the contracting officer should seek legal advice. (b) (b) A contractor’s allegation that it is entitled to rescission or reformation of its contract in order to correct or mitigate the effect of a mistake shall be treated as a claim under the Disputes statute. A contract may be reformed or rescinded by the contracting officer if the contractor would be entitled to such remedy or relief under the law of Federal contracts. Due to the complex legal issues likely to be associated with allegations of legal entitlement, contracting officers shall make written decisions, prepared with the advice and assistance of legal counsel, either granting or denying relief in whole or in part. (c) (c) A claim that is either denied or not approved in its entirety under paragraph (b) of this section may be cognizable as a request for relief under Public Law85-804 as implemented by subpart  50.1. However, the claim must first be submitted to the contracting officer for consideration under the Disputes statute because the claim is not cognizable under Public Law85-804, as implemented by subpart  50.1, unless other legal authority in the agency concerned is determined to be lacking or inadequate.
5.206 Notices of subcontracting	opportunities. (a) (a) The following entities may transmit a notice to the GPE to seek competition for subcontracts, to increase participation by HUBZone small business, small, small disadvantaged, women-owned small business, veteran-owned small business and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, and to meet established subcontracting plan goals: (b) (b) The notices	must describe-
52.219 [Reserved] No subsections found.
41.301 Requirements. (a) (a) Requests for delegations of GSA contracting authority assistance with a proposed contract as provided in 41.203, and the submission of other information required by this part, shall be sent or submitted to the General Services Administration (GSA) region in which service is required. The names and locations of GSA regional offices are available from the: (b) (b) Requests for contracting assistance for utility services shall be sent not later than 120 days prior to the date new services are required to commence or an existing contract will expire. Requests for assistance shall contain the following information: (c) (c) For new utility service requirements, the agency shall furnish the information in paragraph (a) of this section and the following as applicable: (d) (d) For existing utility service, the agency shall furnish GSA the information in paragraph (b) of this section and the following, as applicable:
52.245-5 [Reserved] No subsections found.
53.101 Requirements for use of forms. No subsections found.
47.303-4 F.o.b. origin, freight prepaid. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. origin, freight prepaid" means- (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor’s responsibilities are the same as those listed in 47.303-1(b), except that the contractor shall prepare commercial bills of lading or other transportation receipts and shall prepay all freight charges to the extent specified in the contract. (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-32, F.o.b. Origin, Freight Prepaid, when the delivery term is f.o.b. origin, freight prepaid.
52.232-16 Progress Payments. (a) (a) Computation of amounts. (b) (b) Liquidation. Except as provided in the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause, all progress payments shall be liquidated by deducting from any payment under this contract, other than advance or progress payments, the unliquidated progress payments, or 80 percent of the amount invoiced, whichever is less. The Contractor shall repay to the Government any amounts required by a retroactive price reduction, after computing liquidations and payments on past invoices at the reduced prices and adjusting the unliquidated progress payments accordingly. The Government reserves the right to unilaterally change from the ordinary liquidation rate to an alternate rate when deemed appropriate for proper contract financing. (c) (c) Reduction or suspension. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend progress payments, increase the rate of liquidation, or take a combination of these actions, after finding on substantial evidence any of the following conditions: (d) (d) Title. (e) (e) Risk of loss. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government, the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for property, the title to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the extent the Government expressly assumes the risk. The Contractor shall repay the Government an amount equal to the unliquidated progress payments that are based on costs allocable to property that is lost (see 45.101). (f) (f) Control of costs and property. The Contractor shall maintain an accounting system and controls adequate for the proper administration of this clause. (g) (g) Reports, forms, and access to records. (h) (h) Special terms regarding default. If this contract is terminated under the Default clause, (i) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments and (ii) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of progress payments, for all property for which the Government elects not to require delivery under the Default clause. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default clause. (i) (i) Reservations of rights. (j) (j) Financing payments to subcontractors. The financing payments to subcontractors mentioned in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this clause shall be all financing payments to subcontractors or divisions, if the following conditions are met: (k) (k) Limitations on undefinitized contract actions. Notwithstanding any other progress payment provisions in this contract, progress payments may not exceed 80 percent of costs incurred on work accomplished under undefinitized contract actions. A "contract action" is any action resulting in a contract, as defined in subpart  2.1, including contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but not including contract modifications that are within the scope and under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications issued pursuant to the Changes clause, or funding and other administrative changes. This limitation shall apply to the costs incurred, as computed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, and shall remain in effect until the contract action is definitized. Costs incurred which are subject to this limitation shall be segregated on Contractor progress payment requests and invoices from those costs eligible for higher progress payment rates. For purposes of progress payment liquidation, as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, progress payments for undefinitized contract actions shall be liquidated at 80 percent of the amount invoiced for work performed under the undefinitized contract action as long as the contract action remains undefinitized. The amount of unliquidated progress payments for undefinitized contract actions shall not exceed 80 percent of the maximum liability of the Government under the undefinitized contract action or such lower limit specified elsewhere in the contract. Separate limits may be specified for separate actions. (l) (l) Due date. The designated payment office will make progress payments on the _________ [Contracting Officer insert date as prescribed by agency head; if not prescribed, insert "30th"] day after the designated billing office receives a proper progress payment request. In the event that the Government requires an audit or other review of a specific progress payment request to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office is not compelled to make payment by the specified due date. Progress payments are considered contract financing and are not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act. (m) (m) Progress payments under indefinite-delivery contracts. The Contractor shall account for and submit progress payment requests under individual orders as if the order constituted a separate contract, unless otherwise specified in this contract.
52.229-1 State and Local Taxes. No subsections found.
1.701 Definition. No subsections found.
Subpart 28.3 - Insurance No subsections found.
14.402-1 Unclassified bids. (a) (a) The bid opening officer shall decide when the time set for opening bids has arrived and shall inform those present of that decision. The officer shall then (1) personally and publicly open all bids received before that time, (2)if practical, read the bids aloud to the persons present, and (3) have the bids recorded. The original of each bid shall be carefully safeguarded, particularly until the abstract of bids required by 14.403 has been made and its accuracy verified. (b) (b) Performance of the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section may be delegated to an assistant, but the bid opening officer remains fully responsible for the actions of the assistant. (c) (c) Examination of bids by interested persons shall be permitted if it does not interfere unduly with the conduct of Government business. Original bids shall not be allowed to pass out of the hands of a Government official unless a duplicate bid is not available for public inspection. The original bid may be examined by the public only under the immediate supervision of a Government official and under conditions that preclude possibility of a substitution, addition, deletion, or alteration in the bid.
9.105-1 Obtaining information. (a) (a) Before making a determination of responsibility, the contracting officer shall possess or obtain information sufficient to be satisfied that a prospective contractor currently meets the applicable standards in 9.104. (b) (b) (c) (c) In making the determination of responsibility, the contracting officer shall consider information available through FAPIIS (see 9.104-6) with regard to the offeror and any immediate owner, predecessor, or subsidiary identified for that offeror in FAPIIS, including information that is linked to FAPIIS such as from SAM, and CPARS, as well as any other relevant past performance information on the offeror (see 9.104-1(c) and subpart  42.15). In addition, the contracting officer should use the following sources of information to support such determinations: (d) (d) Contracting offices and cognizant contract administration offices that become aware of circumstances casting doubt on a contractor’s ability to perform contracts successfully shall promptly exchange relevant information.
16.207-1 Description. (a) (a) The contractor to provide a specified level of effort, over a stated period of time, on work that can be stated only in general terms; and (b) (b) The Government to pay the contractor a fixed dollar amount.
25.302-5 Remedies. (a) (a) In addition to other remedies available to the Government- (b) (b) If the performance failures are severe, prolonged, or repeated, the contracting officer shall refer the matter to the appropriate suspending and debarring official.
45.606 Contractor scrap procedures. (a) (a) The property administrator should, in coordination with the plant clearance officer, ensure that contractor scrap disposal processes, methods, and practices allow for effective, efficient, and proper disposition and are properly documented in the contractor’s property management procedures. (b) (b) The property administrator should determine the extent to which separate disposal processing or physical segregation for different scrap types is or may be required. Such scrap may require physical segregation, unique disposal processing, or separate plant clearance reporting. For example, the scope of work may create scrap- (c) (c) Absent contract terms and conditions to the contrary, the Government may abandon parts removed and replaced from property as a result of normal maintenance actions or removed from property as a result of the repair, maintenance, overhaul, or modification process.
22.807 Exemptions. (a) (a) Under the following exemptions, all or part of the requirements of E.O. 11246 may be excluded from a contract subject to E.O. 11246: (b) (b) The following exemptions apply even though a contract or subcontract contains the Equal Opportunity clause: (c) (c) To request an exemption under paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(5) of this section, the contracting officer shall submit, under agency procedures, a detailed justification for omitting all, or part of, the requirements of E.O. 11246. Requests for exemptions under paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(5) of this section shall be submitted to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for approval. (d) (d) The Deputy Assistant Secretary may withdraw the exemption for a specific contract, or group of contracts, if the Deputy Assistant Secretary deems that such action is necessary and appropriate to achieve the purposes of E.O. 11246. Such withdrawal shall not apply-
52.247-18 Multiple Shipments. No subsections found.
22.404-6 Modifications of wage determinations. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) The following applies when contracting by sealed bidding: (c) (c) The following applies when contracting by negotiation: (d) (d) The following applies when modifying a contract to exercise an option to extend the term of a contract:
27.303 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c) Insert a patent rights clause in accordance with the procedures at 27.304-2 if the solicitation or contract is being placed on behalf of another Government agency. (d) (d) Insert a patent rights clause in accordance with agency procedures if the solicitation or contract is for DoD, DOE, or NASA, and the contractor is other than a small business concern or nonprofit organization. (e) (e)
Subpart 39.1 - General No subsections found.
4.1100 Scope. (a) (a) Increase visibility of vendor sources (including their geographical locations) for specific supplies and services; and (b) (b) Establish a common source of vendor data for the Government.
4.500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
15.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
22.102 Federal and State labor requirements. No subsections found.
52.213-2 Invoices. (a) (a) The starting and ending dates of the subscription delivery; and (b) (b) Either that orders have been placed in effect for the addressees required, or that the orders will be placed in effect upon receipt of payment.
Subpart 30.4 - Cost Accounting Standards [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subchapter B - Competition and Acquisition Planning No subsections found.
22.1009 Place of performance unknown. No subsections found.
19.401 General. (a) (a) The Small Business Act is the authority under which the Small Business Administration (SBA) and agencies consult and cooperate with each other in formulating policies to ensure that small business interests will be recognized and protected. (b) (b) The Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization serves as the agency focal point for interfacing with SBA. The Director of the Office of Small Business Programs is the agency focal point for the Department of Defense.
37.115 Uncompensated overtime. No subsections found.
8.001 General. No subsections found.
Subpart 19.13 - Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Program No subsections found.
46.701 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.2106 Prohibited acts. (a) (a) Interfere with an employee's accrual or use of paid sick leave as required by E.O. 13706 or 29 CFR Part 13 (see 29 CFR 13.6(a)); (b) (b) Discharge or in any other manner discriminate against any employee for- (c) (c) Fail to make and maintain or to make available to authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division records for inspection, copying, and transcription as required by 29 CFR 13.25, or otherwise fail to comply with the requirements of 29 CFR 13.25 (see 29 CFR 13.6(c)).
9.110 Reserve Officer Training Corps and military recruiting on campus. No subsections found.
52.217-10 Reverse Auction (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) Reverse auction. The Government intends to conduct a reverse auction under this solicitation to award a contract or blanket purchase agreement. (c) (c) Offeror agreement. By submission of a quote or proposal in response to the solicitation, the Offeror agrees to participate in the reverse auction and agrees that the Government may reveal to all Offerors the offered price(s) in the auction, without revealing any Offeror's identity, except for the awardee's identity subsequent to an award resulting from the auction. The Offeror may withdraw its agreement to further participate in the process by withdrawing its offer before the close of the auction by notifying the Contracting Officer via the contact method identified in the solicitation. (d) (d) Only one offer. If the reverse auction produces only one offer, the Government reserves the right to cancel the auction. (e) (e) Release of information. The Government may use a reverse auction service provider to conduct the reverse auction. Any price or proposal information or source selection information received by the reverse auction service provider in relation to the reverse auction shall not be released, outside of the Government, unless otherwise required by law. However, this does not prevent the Government from revealing to all Offerors the offered price(s) in the auction, without revealing any Offeror's identity. Price or proposal information includes, but is not limited to—
3.805 Exemption. No subsections found.
52.215-20 Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data. (a) (a) Exceptions from certified cost or pricing data. (b) (b) Requirements for certified cost or pricing data. If the offeror is not granted an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost or pricing data, the following applies:
6.301 Policy. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C.3304 and 10 U.S.C. 3204 each authorize, under certain conditions, contracting without providing for full and open competition. The Department of Defense, Coast Guard, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration are subject to “ 10 U.S.C. 3204. Other executive agencies are subject to 41 U.S.C. 3304. Contracting without providing for full and open competition or full and open competition after exclusion of sources is a violation of statute, unless permitted by one of the exceptions in 6.302. (b) (b) Each contract awarded without providing for full and open competition shall contain a reference to the specific authority under which it was so awarded. Contracting officers shall use the U.S. Code citation applicable to their agency. (See 6.302.) (c) (c) Contracting without providing for full and open competition shall not be justified on the basis of- (d) (d) When not providing for full and open competition, the contracting officer shall solicit offers from as many potential sources as is practicable under the circumstances. (e) (e) For contracts under this subpart, the contracting officer shall use the contracting procedures prescribed in 6.102(a) or (b), if appropriate, or any other procedures authorized by this regulation.
8.705-2 Direct-order process. No subsections found.
17.701 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.203-13 Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Code of business ethics and conduct. (c) (c) Business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system. This paragraph (c) does not apply if the Contractor has represented itself as a small business concern pursuant to the award of this contract or if this contract is for the acquisition of a commercial product or commercial service as defined at FAR 2.101. The Contractor shall establish the following within 90 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer establishes a longer time period: (d) (d) Subcontracts.
32.503 Postaward matters. No subsections found.
9.110-4 Procedures. (a) (a)The Secretary of Defense will create an active exclusion record for the institution in the System for Award Management; and (b) (b)A covered agency shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, or consent to subcontracts with the institution. The prohibition in this paragraph (b) does not apply to acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or to acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services, including commercially available off-the-shelf items.
4.804-2 Closeout of the contracting office files if another office administers the contract. (a) (a) Contract files for contracts using simplified acquisition procedures should be considered closed when the contracting officer receives evidence of receipt of property and final payment, unless otherwise specified by agency regulation. (b) (b) All other contract files shall be closed as soon as practicable after the contracting officer receives a contract completion statement from the contract administration office. The contracting officer shall ensure that all contractual actions required have been completed and shall prepare a statement to that effect. This statement is authority to close the contract file and shall be made a part of the official contract file.
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
4.802 Contract files. (a) (a) A contract file should generally consist of- (b) (b) Normally, each file should be kept separately; however, if appropriate, any or all of the files may be combined; e.g., if all functions or any combination of the functions are performed by the same office. (c) (c) Files must be maintained at organizational levels that ensure- (d) (d) If the contract files or file segments are decentralized (e.g., by type or function) to various organizational elements or to other outside offices, responsibility for their maintenance must be assigned. A central control and, if needed, a locator system should be established to ensure the ability to locate promptly any contract files. (e) (e) Contents of contract files that are contractor bid or proposal information or source selection information as defined in 2.101 must be protected from disclosure to unauthorized persons (see 3.104-4). (f) (f) Agencies may retain contract files in any medium (paper, electronic, microfilm, etc.) or any combination of media, as long as the requirements of this subpart are satisfied.
Subpart 51.2 - Contractor Use of Interagency Fleet Management System (IFMS) Vehicles No subsections found.
45.201 Solicitation. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert a listing of the Government property to be offered in all solicitations where Government-furnished property is anticipated (see 45.102). The listing shall include at a minimum- (b) (b) When Government property is offered for use in a competitive acquisition, solicitations should specify that the contractor is responsible for all costs related to making the property available for use, such as payment of all transportation, installation or rehabilitation costs. (c) (c) The solicitation shall describe the evaluation procedures to be followed, including rental charges or equivalents and other costs or savings to be evaluated, and shall require all offerors to submit the following information with their offers- (d) (d) Any additional instructions to the contractor regarding property management, accountability, and use, not addressed in FAR clause 52.245-1, Government Property, should be specifically addressed in the statement of work on the contract providing property or in a special provision.
36.214 Special procedures for price negotiation in construction contracting. (a) (a) Agencies shall follow the policies and procedures in part  15 when negotiating prices for construction. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall evaluate proposals and associated certified cost or pricing data and data other than certified cost or pricing data and shall compare them to the Government estimate. (c) (c) When appropriate, additional pricing tools may be used. For example, proposed prices may be compared to current prices for similar types of work, adjusted for differences in the work site and the specifications. Also, rough yardsticks may be developed and used, such as cost per cubic foot for structures, cost per linear foot for utilities, and cost per cubic yard for excavation or concrete.
22.1003-5 Some examples of contracts covered. (a) (a) Motor pool operation, parking, taxicab, and ambulance services. (b) (b) Packing, crating, and storage. (c) (c) Custodial, janitorial, housekeeping, and guard services. (d) (d) Food service and lodging. (e) (e) Laundry, dry-cleaning, linen-supply, and clothing alteration and repair services. (f) (f) Snow, trash, and garbage removal. (g) (g) Aerial spraying and aerial reconnaissance for fire detection. (h) (h) Some support services at installations, including grounds maintenance and landscaping. (i) (i) Certain specialized services requiring specific skills, such as drafting, illustrating, graphic arts, stenographic reporting, or mortuary services. (j) (j) Electronic equipment maintenance and operation and engineering support services. (k) (k) Maintenance and repair of all types of equipment, for example, aircraft, engines, electrical motors, vehicles, and electronic, office and related business and construction equipment. (But see 22.1003-4(c)(1) and (d)(1)(iv).) (l) (l) Operation, maintenance, or logistics support of a Federal facility. (m) (m) Data collection, processing and analysis services.
Subpart 22.12 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.1010 Notification to interested parties under collective bargaining agreements. (a) (a) The contracting officer should determine whether the incumbent prime contractor’s or its subcontractors’ service employees performing on the current contract are represented by a collective bargaining agent. If there is a collective bargaining agent, the contracting officer shall give both the incumbent contractor and its employees’ collective bargaining agent written notification of- (b) (b) This written notification must be given at least 30 days in advance of the earliest applicable acquisition date or the applicable annual or biennial anniversary date in order for the time-of-receipt limitations in paragraphs 22.1012-2(a) and (b) to apply. The contracting officer shall retain a copy of the notification in the contract file.
14.201 Preparation of invitations for bids. No subsections found.
5.601 Governmentwide database of contracts. (a) (a) A Governmentwide database of contracts and other procurement instruments intended for use by multiple agencies is available via the Internet at https://www.contractdirectory.gov/contractdirectory/. This searchable database is a tool that may be used to identify existing contracts and other procurement instruments that may be used to fulfill Government needs. (b) (b) The contracting activity shall-
52.241-2 Order of Precedence-Utilities. No subsections found.
7.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Developing acquisition plans; (b) (b) Determining whether to use commercial or Government resources for acquisition of supplies or services; (c) (c) Deciding whether it is more economical to lease equipment rather than purchase it; and (d) (d) Determining whether functions are inherently governmental.
Subpart 4.9 - Taxpayer Identification Number Information No subsections found.
3.101-1 General. No subsections found.
43.107 Contract clause. No subsections found.
9.109 Prohibition on contracting with an entity involved in activities that violate arms control treaties or agreements with the United States. No subsections found.
32.801 Definitions. No subsections found.
32.703-1 General. (a) (a) If the contract is fully funded, funds are obligated to cover the price or target price of a fixed-price contract or the estimated cost and any fee of a cost-reimbursement contract. (b) (b) If the contract is incrementally funded, funds are obligated to cover the amount allotted and any corresponding increment of fee.
19.705-5 Awards involving subcontracting plans. (a) (a) In making an award that requires a subcontracting plan, the contracting officer shall be responsible for the following: (b) (b) Letter contracts and similar undefinitized instruments, which would otherwise meet the requirements of 19.702(a)(1)(i) and (ii), shall contain at least a preliminary basic plan addressing the requirements of 19.704 and in such cases require the negotiation of the final plan within 90 days after award or before definitization, whichever occurs first.
25.105 Critical components and critical items. (a) (a) The following is a list of articles that have been determined to be a critical component or critical item and their respective preference factor(s). (b) (b) The list of articles and preference factors in paragraph (a) of this section will be published in the Federal Register for public comment no less frequently than once every 4 years. Unsolicited recommendations for deletions from this list may be submitted at any time and should provide sufficient data and rationale to permit evaluation ( see 1.502). (c) (c) For determining reasonableness of cost for domestic end products that contain critical components or are critical items ( see 25.106(c)).
40.202-6 Waivers. (a) (a)With the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, after consultation with the FASC; and (b) (b)Upon notification to-
52.204-17  Ownership or Control of Offeror. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision– (b) (b) The Offeror represents that it □ has or □ does not have an immediate owner. If the Offeror has more than one immediate owner (such as a joint venture), then the Offeror shall respond to paragraph (c) and if applicable, paragraph (d) of this provision for each participant in the joint venture. (c) (c) If the Offeror indicates "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, enter the following information: (d) (d) If the Offeror indicates "yes" in paragraph (c) of this provision, indicating that the immediate owner is owned or controlled by another entity, then enter the following information:
Subpart 42.9 - Bankruptcy No subsections found.
47.400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
47.305-11 Options in shipment and delivery. (a) (a) Direct deliveries of all or part of the contract quantity to destinations or to consignees other than those specified in the solicitation and in the contract; (b) (b) Direct shipments in quantities that may require transportation rates different from those on which the contract price is based; and (c) (c) Direct shipments by a mode of transportation other than that stipulated in the solicitation and in the contract.
25.1102 Acquisition of construction. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.225-9, Buy American-Construction Materials, in solicitations and contracts for construction that is performed in the United States valued at less than $6,708,000. (b) (b) (c) (c) Insert the clause at 52.225-11, Buy American-Construction Materials under Trade Agreements, in solicitations and contracts for construction that is performed in the United States valued at $6,708,000 or more. (d) (d) (e) (e)
32.104 Providing contract financing. (a) (a) Prudent contract financing can be a useful working tool in Government acquisition by expediting the performance of essential contracts. Contracting officers must consider the criteria in this part in determining whether to include contract financing in solicitations and contracts. Resolve reasonable doubts by including contract financing in the solicitation. The contracting officer must- (b) (b) If the contractor is a small business concern, the contracting officer must give special attention to meeting the contractor’s contract financing need. However, a contractor’s receipt of a certificate of competency from the Small Business Administration has no bearing on the contractor’s need for or entitlement to contract financing. (c) (c) Subject to specific agency regulations and paragraph (d) of this section, the contracting officer- (d) (d) Unless otherwise authorized by agency procedures, the contracting officer may provide contract financing in the form of performance-based payments (see subpart  32.10) or customary progress payments (see subpart  32.5) if the following conditions are met:
28.302 Notice of cancellation or change. No subsections found.
49.602-5 Settlement agreement. No subsections found.
42.601 General. No subsections found.
52.242-11 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.117 Awards to economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concerns and women-owned small business concerns eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program. No subsections found.
19.602-3 Resolving differences between the agency and the Small Business Administration. (a) (a) COCs valued between $100,000 and $25,000,000. (b) (b) SBA Headquarters’ decisions on COCs valued over $25,000,000. (c) (c) Reconsideration of a COC after issuance.
47.403-3 Disallowance of expenditures. (a) (a) Agencies shall disallow expenditures for U.S. Government-financed commercial international air transportation on foreign-flag air carriers unless there is attached to the appropriate voucher a memorandum adequately explaining why service by U.S.-flag air carriers was not available, or why it was necessary to use foreign-flag air carriers. (b) (b) When the travel is by indirect route or the traveler otherwise fails to use available U.S.-flag air carrier service, the amount to be disallowed against the traveler is based on the loss of revenues suffered by U.S.-flag air carriers as determined under the following formula, which is prescribed and more fully explained in 56 Comp. Gen. 209 (1977): (c) (c) The justification requirement is satisfied by the contractor’s use of a statement similar to the one contained in the clause at 52.247-63, Preference for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers. (See 47.405.)
Part 24 - Protection of Privacy and Freedom of Information No subsections found.
52.237-8 Restriction on Severance Payments to Foreign Nationals. (a) (a) The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), at 31.205-6(g)(6), limits the cost allowability of severance payments to foreign nationals employed under a service contract performed outside the United States unless the agency grants a waiver pursuant to FAR 37.113-1 before contract award. (b) (b) In making the determination concerning the granting of a waiver, the agency will determine that-
52.232-32 Performance-Based Payments. (a) (a) Amount of payments and limitations on payments. Subject to such other limitations and conditions as are specified in this contract and this clause, the amount of payments and limitations on payments shall be specified in the contract’s description of the basis for payment. (b) (b) Contractor request for performance-based payment. The Contractor may submit requests for payment of performance-based payments not more frequently than monthly, in a form and manner acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer, all performance-based payments in any period for which payment is being requested shall be included in a single request, appropriately itemized and totaled. The Contractor’s request shall contain the information and certification detailed in paragraphs (l) and (m) of this clause. (c) (c) Approval and payment of requests. (d) (d) Liquidation of performance-based payments. (e) (e) Reduction or suspension of performance-based payments. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend performance-based payments, liquidate performance-based payments by deduction from any payment under the contract, or take a combination of these actions after finding upon substantial evidence any of the following conditions: (f) (f) Title. (g) (g) Risk of loss. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government, the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for property, the title to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the extent the Government expressly assumes the risk. If any property is lost (see 45.101), the basis of payment (the events or performance criteria) to which the property is related shall be deemed to be not in compliance with the terms of the contract and not payable (if the property is part of or needed for performance), and the Contractor shall refund the related performance-based payments in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause. (h) (h) Records and controls. The Contractor shall maintain records and controls adequate for administration of this clause. The Contractor shall have no entitlement to performance-based payments during any time the Contractor’s records or controls are determined by the Contracting Officer to be inadequate for administration of this clause. (i) (i) Reports and Government access. The Contractor shall promptly furnish reports, certificates, financial statements, and other pertinent information requested by the Contracting Officer for the administration of this clause and to determine that an event or other criterion prompting a financing payment has been successfully accomplished. The Contractor shall give the Government reasonable opportunity to examine and verify the Contractor’s records and to examine and verify the Contractor’s performance of this contract for administration of this clause. (j) (j) Special terms regarding default. If this contract is terminated under the Default clause, (1) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated performance-based payments, and (2) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of all performance-based payments, for all property for which the Government elects not to require delivery under the Default clause of this contract. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default clause. (k) (k) Reservation of rights. (l) (l) Content of Contractor’s request for performance-based payment. The Contractor’s request for performance-based payment shall contain the following: (m) (m) Content of Contractor's certification. As required in paragraph (l)(5) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the following certification in each request for performance-based payment:
46.306 Time-and-material and labor-hour contracts. No subsections found.
52.222-51 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements. (a) (a) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Government purposes, and are sold or traded by the Contractor in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations. (b) (b) The services shall be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of equipment. (c) (c) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract shall be the same as that used for these employees and for equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. (d) (d) The Contractor is responsible for compliance with all the conditions of this exemption by its subcontractors. The Contractor shall determine the applicability of this exemption to any subcontract on or before subcontract award. In making a judgment that the exemption applies, the Contractor shall consider all factors and make an affirmative determination that all of the conditions in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this clause will be met. (e) (e) If the Department of Labor determines that any conditions for exemption in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this clause have not been met, the exemption shall be deemed inapplicable, and the contract shall become subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute. In such case, the procedures at 29 CFR 4.123(e)(1)(iv) and 29 CFR 4.5(c) will be followed. (f) (f) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in subcontracts for exempt services under this contract.
2.201 Contract clause. No subsections found.
34.202 Integrated Baseline Reviews. (a) (a) When an EVMS is required, the Government will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). (b) (b) The purpose of the IBR is to verify the technical content and the realism of the related performance budgets, resources, and schedules. It should provide a mutual understanding of the inherent risks in offerors’/ contractors’ performance plans and the underlying management control systems, and it should formulate a plan to handle these risks. (c) (c) The IBR is a joint assessment by the offeror or contractor, and the Government, of the- (d) (d) The timing and conduct of the IBR shall be in accordance with agency procedures. If a pre-award IBR will be conducted, the solicitation must include the procedures for conducting the IBR and address whether offerors will be reimbursed for the associated costs. If permitted, reimbursement of offerors’ pre-award IBR costs is governed by the provisions of FAR part  31.
52.223-21 Foams. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause– (b) (b) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor shall reduce its use, release, and emissions of high global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons and refrigerant blends containing hydrofluorocarbons, when feasible, from foam blowing agents, under this contract. When determining feasibility of using a particular alternative, the Contractor shall consider environmental, technical, and economic factors such as– (c) (c) The Contractor shall refer to EPA’s SNAP program to identify alternatives. The SNAP list of alternatives is found at 40 CFR part 82 subpart G with supplemental tables available at https://www.epa.gov/snap/.
42.1701 Procedures. (a) (a) Negotiation of forward pricing rate agreements (FPRA’s) may be requested by the contracting officer or the contractor or initiated by the administrative contracting officer (ACO). In determining whether or not to establish such an agreement, the ACO should consider whether the benefits to be derived from the agreement are commensurate with the effort of establishing and monitoring it. Normally, FPRA’s should be negotiated only with contractors having a significant volume of Government contract proposals. The cognizant contract administration agency shall determine whether an FPRA will be established. (b) (b) The ACO shall obtain the contractor’s forward pricing rate proposal and require that it include cost or pricing data that are accurate, complete, and current as of the date of submission (but see 15.407-3(c)). The ACO shall invite the cognizant contract auditor and contracting offices having a significant interest to participate in developing a Government objective and in the negotiations. Upon completing negotiations, the ACO shall prepare a price negotiation memorandum (PNM) (see 15.406-3) and forward copies of the PNM and FPRA to the cognizant auditor and to all contracting offices that are known to be affected by the FPRA. (c) (c) The FPRA shall provide specific terms and conditions covering expiration, application, and data requirements for systematic monitoring to ensure the validity of the rates. The agreement shall provide for cancellation at the option of either party and shall require the contractor to submit to the ACO and to the cognizant contract auditor any significant change in cost or pricing data used to support the FPRA. (d) (d) When an FPRA is invalid, the contractor should submit and negotiate a new proposal to reflect the changed conditions. If an FPRA has not been established or has been invalidated, the ACO will issue a forward pricing rate recommendation (FPRR) to buying activities with documentation to assist negotiators. In the absence of an FPRA or FPRR, the ACO shall include support for rates utilized. (e) (e) The ACO may negotiate continuous updates to the FPRA. The FPRA will provide specific terms and conditions covering notification, application, and data requirements for systematic monitoring to ensure the validity of the rates.
52.224-3 Privacy Training. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this clause, "personally identifiable information" means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual. (See Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Managing Federal Information as a Strategic Resource). (b) (b) The Contractor shall ensure that initial privacy training, and annual privacy training thereafter, is completed by contractor employees who- (c) (c) (d) (d) The Contractor shall maintain and, upon request, provide documentation of completion of privacy training to the Contracting Officer. (e) (e) The Contractor shall not allow any employee access to a system of records, or permit any employee to create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, dispose or otherwise handle personally identifiable information, or to design, develop, maintain, or operate a system of records unless the employee has completed privacy training, as required by this clause. (f) (f) The substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), shall be included in all subcontracts under this contract, when subcontractor employees will-
27.404-4 Contractor’s release, publication, and use of data. (a) (a) In contracts for basic or applied research with universities or colleges, agencies shall not place any restrictions on the conduct of or reporting on the results of unclassified basic or applied research, except as provided in applicable U.S. statutes. However, agencies may restrict the release or disclosure of computer software that is or is intended to be developed to the point of practical application (including for agency distribution under established programs). This is not considered a restriction on the reporting of the results of basic or applied research. Agencies may also preclude a contractor from asserting copyright in any computer software for purposes of established agency distribution programs, or where required to accomplish the purpose for which the software is acquired. (b) (b) Except for the results of basic or applied research under contracts with universities or colleges, agencies may, to the extent provided in their FAR supplements, place limitations or restrictions on the contractor’s exercise of its rights in data first produced in the performance of the contract, including a requirement to assign copyright to the Government or another party. Any of these restrictions shall be expressly included in the contract.
8.406 Ordering activity responsibilities. No subsections found.
Subpart 16.7 - Agreements No subsections found.
11.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
22.505 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) (b) (b)
Subpart 49.5 - Contract Termination Clauses No subsections found.
52.217-5 Evaluation of Options. No subsections found.
Part 19 - Small Business Programs No subsections found.
52.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 25.1 - Buy American-Supplies No subsections found.
40.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part addresses broad security requirements that apply to acquisitions of products and services. It prescribes policies and procedures for managing information security and supply chain security when acquiring products and services that include, but are not limited to, information and communications technology (ICT). (b) (b) See part  39 for security-related policies and procedures that only apply to ICT. (c) (c) See parts 4, 24, and 46 for additional policies and procedures related to managing information security and supply chain security. (d) (d) Information and supply chain policies and procedures that are unrelated to security are covered in other parts of the FAR ( e.g., part  22 for labor and human trafficking risks and part  23 for climate-related risks).
9.108-3 Representation by the offeror. (a) (a) In order to be eligible for contract award, an offeror must represent that it is neither an inverted domestic corporation, nor a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation. Any offeror that cannot so represent is ineligible for award of a contract, unless waived in accordance with the procedures at 9.108-4. (b) (b) The contracting officer may rely on an offeror’s representation that it is not an inverted domestic corporation unless the contracting officer has reason to question the representation.
15.507 Protests against award. (a) (a) Protests against award in negotiated acquisitions shall be handled in accordance with part  33. Use of agency protest procedures that incorporate the alternative dispute resolution provisions of Executive Order 12979 is encouraged for both preaward and postaward protests. (b) (b) If a protest causes the agency, within 1 year of contract award, to- (c) (c) The following information will be provided to appropriate parties:
35.017-1 Sponsoring agreements. (a) (a) In order to facilitate a long-term relationship between the Government and an FFRDC, establish the FFRDC’s mission, and ensure a periodic reevaluation of the FFRDC, a written agreement of sponsorship between the Government and the FFRDC shall be prepared when the FFRDC is established. The sponsoring agreement may take various forms; it may be included in a contract between the Government and the FFRDC, or in another legal instrument under which an FFRDC accomplishes effort, or it may be in a separate written agreement. Notwithstanding its form, the sponsoring agreement shall be clearly designated as such by the sponsor. (b) (b) While the specific content of any sponsoring agreement will vary depending on the situation, the agreement shall contain, as a minimum, the requirements of paragraph (c) of this subsection. The requirements for, and the contents of, sponsoring agreements may be as further specified in sponsoring agencies’ policies and procedures. (c) (c) As a minimum, the following requirements must be addressed in either a sponsoring agreement or sponsoring agencies’ policies and procedures: (d) (d) The sponsoring agreement or sponsoring agencies’ policies and procedures may also contain, as appropriate, other provisions, such as identification of- (e) (e) The term of the agreement will not exceed 5 years, but can be renewed, as a result of periodic review, in increments not to exceed 5 years.
Subpart 42.15 - Contractor Performance Information No subsections found.
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
25.204 Evaluating offers of foreign construction material. (a) (a) Offerors proposing to use foreign construction material other than that listed by the Government in the applicable clause at 52.225-9, paragraph (b)(2), or 52.225-11, paragraph (b)(3), or covered by the WTO GPA or a Free Trade Agreement (paragraph (b)(2) of 52.225-11), must provide the information required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of the respective clauses. (b) (b) (c) (c) Offerors also may submit alternate offers based on use of equivalent domestic construction material to avoid possible rejection of the entire offer if the Government determines that an exception permitting use of a particular foreign construction material does not apply. (d) (d) If the contracting officer awards a contract to an offeror that proposed foreign construction material not listed in the applicable clause in the solicitation (paragraph (b)(2) of 52.225-9, or paragraph (b)(3) of 52.225-11), the contracting officer must add the excepted materials to the list in the contract clause.
12.206 Use of past performance. No subsections found.
49.303-5 Final settlement. (a) (a) The TCO shall proceed with the settlement and execution of a settlement agreement upon receipt of the audit report, if applicable, and the contract audit closing statement covering vouchered costs. (b) (b) The TCO shall adjust the fee as provided in 49.305. (c) (c) The final settlement agreement may include all demands of the Government and proposals of the contractor under the terminated contract. However, no amount shall be allowed for any item of cost disallowed by the Government, nor for any other item of cost of the same nature. (d) (d) If an overall settlement of costs is agreed upon, agreement on each element of cost is not necessary. If appropriate, differences may be compromised and doubtful questions settled by agreement. An overall settlement shall not include costs that are clearly not allowable under the terms of the contract.
7.301 Definitions. No subsections found.
16.701 Scope. No subsections found.
36.609-3 Work oversight in architect-engineer contracts. No subsections found.
16.403-1 Fixed-price incentive (firm target) contracts. (a) (a) Description. A fixed-price incentive (firm target) contract specifies a target cost, a target profit, a price ceiling (but not a profit ceiling or floor), and a profit adjustment formula. These elements are all negotiated at the outset. The price ceiling is the maximum that may be paid to the contractor, except for any adjustment under other contract clauses. When the contractor completes performance, the parties negotiate the final cost, and the final price is established by applying the formula. When the final cost is less than the target cost, application of the formula results in a final profit greater than the target profit; conversely, when final cost is more than target cost, application of the formula results in a final profit less than the target profit, or even a net loss. If the final negotiated cost exceeds the price ceiling, the contractor absorbs the difference as a loss. Because the profit varies inversely with the cost, this contract type provides a positive, calculable profit incentive for the contractor to control costs. (b) (b) Application. A fixed-price incentive (firm target) contract is appropriate when the parties can negotiate at the outset a firm target cost, target profit, and profit adjustment formula that will provide a fair and reasonable incentive and a ceiling that provides for the contractor to assume an appropriate share of the risk. When the contractor assumes a considerable or major share of the cost responsibility under the adjustment formula, the target profit should reflect this responsibility. (c) (c) Limitations. This contract type may be used only when- (d) (d) Contract schedule. The contracting officer shall specify in the contract schedule the target cost, target profit, and target price for each item subject to incentive price revision.
52.253-1 Computer Generated Forms. (a) (a) Any data required to be submitted on a Standard or Optional Form prescribed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) may be submitted on a computer generated version of the form, provided there is no change to the name, content, or sequence of the data elements on the form, and provided the form carries the Standard or Optional Form number and edition date. (b) (b) Unless prohibited by agency regulations, any data required to be submitted on an agency unique form prescribed by an agency supplement to the FAR may be submitted on a computer generated version of the form provided there is no change to the name, content, or sequence of the data elements on the form and provided the form carries the agency form number and edition date. (c) (c) If the Contractor submits a computer generated version of a form that is different than the required form, then the rights and obligations of the parties will be determined based on the content of the required form.
47.304-2 Shipments within CONUS. (a) (a) Solicitations shall provide that offers may be submitted on the basis of either or both f.o.b origin and f.o.b. destination and that they will be evaluated on the basis of the lowest overall cost to the Government. (b) (b) When sufficient reasons exist not to follow this policy, the contract file shall be documented to include the reasons.
Subpart 5.1 - Dissemination of Information No subsections found.
23.102 Authorities. (a) (a) Section 208 of Executive Order 14057, Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability, dated December 8, 2021. (b) (b)  Paragraph G of section I of the Executive Office of the President's Office of Management and Budget, Council on Environmental Quality, and Climate Policy Office Memorandum M-22-06, Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability, dated December 8, 2021. (c) (c) Implementing instructions for Executive Order 14057, Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability, dated August 2022. (d) (d) The authorities referenced in 23.107 for statutory purchasing programs.
7.108 Additional requirements for telecommuting. (a) (a) Include in a solicitation a requirement that prohibits an offeror from permitting its employees to telecommute unless the contracting officer first determines that the requirements of the agency, including security requirements, cannot be met if telecommuting is permitted. The contracting officer shall document the basis for the determination in writing and specify the prohibition in the solicitation; or (b) (b) When telecommuting is not prohibited, unfavorably evaluate an offer because it includes telecommuting, unless the contracting officer first determines that the requirements of the agency, including security requirements, would be adversely impacted if telecommuting is permitted. The contracting officer shall document the basis for the determination in writing and address the evaluation procedures in the solicitation.
31.302 General. No subsections found.
49.401 General. (a) (a) Termination for default is generally the exercise of the Government’s contractual right to completely or partially terminate a contract because of the contractor’s actual or anticipated failure to perform its contractual obligations. (b) (b) If the contractor can establish, or it is otherwise determined that the contractor was not in default or that the failure to perform is excusable; i.e., arose out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the contractor, the default clauses prescribed in 49.503 and located at 52.249 provide that a termination for default will be considered to have been a termination for the convenience of the Government, and the rights and obligations of the parties governed accordingly. (c) (c) The Government may, in appropriate cases, exercise termination or cancellation rights in addition to those in the contract clauses (see for example, paragraph (h) of the Default clause at 52.249-8). (d) (d) For default terminations of orders under Federal Supply Schedule contracts, see subpart  8.4. (e) (e) Notwithstanding the	provisions of this 49.401, the	contracting officer may, with the written consent of the contractor,	reinstate the terminated contract by amending the notice of termination,	after a written determination is made that the supplies or services are	still required and reinstatement is advantageous to the Government.
52.214-33 [Reserved] No subsections found.
1.501-1 Definition. No subsections found.
52.242-3 Penalties for Unallowable Costs. (a) (a) Definition. Proposal, as used in this clause, means either— (b) (b) Contractors which include unallowable indirect costs in a proposal may be subject to penalties. The penalties are prescribed in 10 U.S.C. 3748 or 41 U.S.C. chapter 43, as applicable, which is implemented in Section 42.709 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). (c) (c) The Contractor shall not include in any proposal any cost that is unallowable, as defined in subpart 2.1 of the FAR, or an executive agency supplement to the FAR. (d) (d) If the Contracting Officer determines that a cost submitted by the Contractor in its proposal is expressly unallowable under a cost principle in the FAR, or an executive agency supplement to the FAR, that defines the allowability of specific selected costs, the Contractor shall be assessed a penalty equal to– (e) (e) If the Contracting Officer determines that a cost submitted by the Contractor in its proposal includes a cost previously determined to be unallowable for that Contractor, then the Contractor will be assessed a penalty in an amount equal to two times the amount of the disallowed cost allocated to this contract. (f) (f) Determinations under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause are final decisions within the meaning of 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, Contract Disputes. (g) (g) Pursuant to the criteria in FAR 42.709-6, the Contracting Officer may waive the penalties in paragraph (d) or (e) of this clause. (h) (h) Payment by the Contractor of any penalty assessed under this clause does not constitute repayment to the Government of any unallowable cost which has been paid by the Government to the Contractor.
32.412 Contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer	shall insert the clause at 52.232-12, Advance Payments, in solicitations and contracts	under which the Government will provide advance payments, except as provided	in 32.412(b). (b) (b) If the agency desires to waive the countersignature requirement because of the contractor’s financial strength, good performance record, and favorable experience concerning cost disallowances, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I. (c) (c) If a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateII. (d) (d) If the agency considers a more rapid liquidation appropriate, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateIII. (e) (e) If the agency provides advance payments under the contract at no interest to the prime contractor, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateIV. (f) (f) If the requirement for a special account is eliminated in accordance with 32.409-3(e) or (g), the contracting officer shall insert in the solicitation or contract the clause set forth in Alternate V of 52.232-12, Advance Payments, instead of the basic clause.
Subpart 43.1 - General No subsections found.
Part 3 - Improper Business Practices and Personal Conflicts of Interest No subsections found.
13.303-4 Clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert in each BPA the clauses prescribed elsewhere in this part that are required for or applicable to the particular BPA. (b) (b) Unless a clause prescription specifies otherwise (e.g., see 22.305(a), 22.605(a)(5), or 22.1006), if the prescription includes a dollar threshold, the amount to be compared to that threshold is that of any particular order under the BPA.
27.405 Other data rights provisions. No subsections found.
32.909 Contractor inquiries. (a) (a) Direct questions involving- (b) (b) Small business concerns may contact the agency’s local small business specialist or representative from the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization to obtain additional assistance related to payment issues, late payment interest penalties, and information on the Prompt Payment Act.
49.105-4 Cleanup of construction site. No subsections found.
Subpart 52.3 - Provision and Clause Matrix No subsections found.
52.222-16 Approval of Wage Rates. No subsections found.
3.1103 Procedures. (a) (a) By use of the contract clause at 52.203-16, as prescribed at 3.1106, the contracting officer shall require each contractor whose employees perform acquisition functions closely associated with inherently Government functions to- (b) (b) If a contractor reports a personal conflict-of-interest violation by a covered employee to the contracting officer in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of the clause at 52.203-16, Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest, the contracting officer shall-
52.214-4 False Statements in Bids. No subsections found.
22.604 Exemptions. No subsections found.
22.101-1 General. (a) (a) Agencies shall maintain sound relations with industry and labor to ensure (1) prompt receipt of information involving labor relations that may adversely affect the Government acquisition process and (2) that the Government obtains needed supplies and services without delay. All matters regarding labor relations shall be handled in accordance with agency procedures. (b) (b) (c) (c) Agencies should, when practicable, exchange information concerning labor matters with other affected agencies to ensure a uniform Government approach concerning a particular plant or labor-management dispute. (d) (d) Agencies should take other actions concerning labor relations problems to the extent consistent with their acquisition responsibilities. For example, agencies should- (e) (e) The head of the contracting activity may designate programs or requirements for which it is necessary that contractors be required to notify the Government of actual or potential labor disputes that are delaying or threaten to delay the timely contract performance (see 22.103-5(a)).
42.709 Penalties for Unallowable Costs. No subsections found.
52.236-15 Schedules for Construction Contracts. (a) (a) The Contractor shall, within five days after the work commences on the contract or another period of time determined by the Contracting Officer, prepare and submit to the Contracting Officer for approval three copies of a practicable schedule showing the order in which the Contractor proposes to perform the work, and the dates on which the Contractor contemplates starting and completing the several salient features of the work (including acquiring materials, plant, and equipment). The schedule shall be in the form of a progress chart of suitable scale to indicate appropriately the percentage of work scheduled for completion by any given date during the period. If the Contractor fails to submit a schedule within the time prescribed, the Contracting Officer may withhold approval of progress payments until the Contractor submits the required schedule. (b) (b) The Contractor shall enter the actual progress on the chart as directed by the Contracting Officer, and upon doing so shall immediately deliver three copies of the annotated schedule to the Contracting Officer. If, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor falls behind the approved schedule, the Contractor shall take steps necessary to improve its progress, including those that may be required by the Contracting Officer, without additional cost to the Government. In this circumstance, the Contracting Officer may require the Contractor to increase the number of shifts, overtime operations, days of work, and/or the amount of construction plant, and to submit for approval any supplementary schedule or schedules in chart form as the Contracting Officer deems necessary to demonstrate how the approved rate of progress will be regained. (c) (c) Failure of the Contractor to comply with the requirements of the Contracting Officer under this clause shall be grounds for a determination by the Contracting Officer that the Contractor is not prosecuting the work with sufficient diligence to ensure completion within the time specified in the contract. Upon making this determination, the Contracting Officer may terminate the Contractor’s right to proceed with the work, or any separable part of it, in accordance with the default terms of this contract.
Subpart 37.2 - Advisory and Assistance Services No subsections found.
52.101 Using Part 52. (a) (a) Definition. "Modification," as used in this subpart, means a minor change in the details of a provision or clause that is specifically authorized by the FAR and does not alter the substance of the provision or clause (see 52.104). (b) (b) Numbering— (c) (c) Prescriptions. Each provision or clause in subpart  52.2 is prescribed at that place in the FAR text where the subject matter of the provision or clause receives its primary treatment. The prescription includes all conditions, requirements, and instructions for using the provision or clause and its alternates, if any. The provision or clause may be referred to in other FAR locations. (d) (d) Introductory text. Within subpart  52.2, the introductory text of each provision or clause includes a cross-reference to the location in the FAR subject text that prescribes its use. (e) (e) Matrix. (f) (f) Dates. Since they are subject to revision from time to time, all provisions, clauses, and alternates are dated; e.g.,(Dec 1983). To avoid questions concerning which version of any provision, clause, or alternate is operative in any given solicitation or contract, its date shall be included whether it is incorporated by reference or in full text.
15.606 Agency procedures. (a) (a) Agencies shall establish procedures for controlling the receipt, evaluation, and timely disposition of unsolicited proposals consistent with the requirements of this subpart. The procedures shall include controls on the reproduction and disposition of proposal material, particularly data identified by the offeror as subject to duplication, use, or disclosure restrictions. (b) (b) Agencies shall establish agency points of contact (see 15.604) to coordinate the receipt and handling of unsolicited proposals.
53.219 Small business programs. No subsections found.
Subpart 4.22 Prohibition on a ByteDance Covered Application. No subsections found.
26.303 Data collection and reporting requirements. No subsections found.
22.1009-1 General. No subsections found.
34.103 Testing and qualification. (a) (a) Contractors receiving requests from a TitleIII project contractor for testing and qualification of a TitleIII industrial resource shall refer such requests to the contracting officer. The contracting officer shall evaluate the request in accordance with agency procedures to determine whether: (1) the TitleIII industrial resource is being or potentially may be used in the development or manufacture of a major system or item of supply; and (2) for major systems in production, remaining quantities to be acquired are sufficient to justify incurring the cost of testing and qualification. In evaluating this request, the contracting officer shall consult with the Defense Production Act Office, TitleIII Program, located at: (b) (b) If the determination at 34.103(a) is affirmative, the contracting	officer shall modify the contract to require the contractor to test the	TitleIII industrial resource for qualification. (c) (c) The Defense Production Act Office, TitleIII Program, shall provide to the contractor the industrial resource produced by the TitleIII project contractor in sufficient amounts to meet testing needs.
52.227-2 Notice and Assistance	Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement. (a) (a) The	Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer, promptly and	in reasonable written detail, each notice or claim of patent or	copyright infringement based on the performance of this contract	of which the Contractor has knowledge. (b) (b) In the event	of any claim or suit against the Government on account of any alleged	patent or copyright infringement arising out of the performance	of this contract or out of the use of any supplies furnished or	work or services performed under this contract, the Contractor shall	furnish to the Government, when requested by the Contracting Officer,	all evidence and information in the Contractor’s possession pertaining	to such claim or suit. Such evidence and information shall be furnished	at the expense of the Government except where the Contractor has	agreed to indemnify the Government. (c) (c) The Contractor shall include	the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all	subcontracts that are expected to exceed the simplified acquisition	threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101 on the date of subcontract	award.
8.707 Prices. (a) (a) The prices of items on the Procurement List are fair market prices established by the Committee. All prices for supplies ordered under this subpart are f.o.b. origin. (b) (b) Prices for supplies are normally adjusted semiannually. Prices for services are normally adjusted annually. (c) (c) The Committee may request the agency responsible for acquiring the supplies or service to assist it in establishing or revising the fair market price. The Committee has the authority to establish prices without prior coordination with the responsible contracting office. (d) (d) Price changes shall normally apply to all orders received by the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency on or after the effective date of the change. In special cases, after considering the views of the ordering office, the Committee may make price changes applicable to orders received by the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency prior to the effective date of the change. (e) (e) If an ordering office desires packing, packaging, or marking of supplies other than the standard pack as provided on the Procurement List, any difference in costs shall be included as a separate item on the nonprofit agency’s invoice. The ordering office shall reimburse the nonprofit agency for these costs. (f) (f) Ordering offices may make recommendations to the Committee at any time for price revisions for supplies and services on the Procurement List.
19.307 Protesting a firm’s	status as a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (a) (a) Definition. (b) (b) (c) (c) Protests	relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures	of 19.302. An interested	party seeking to protest both the small business size and service-disabled	veteran-owned small business status of an apparent successful offeror	shall file two separate protests. (d) (d) All protests	must be in writing and must state all specific grounds for the protest. (e) (e) Protest by an interested party. (f) (f) Forwarding protests to SBA. (g) (g) Notification by OHA. OHA will notify the protester, the protested concern, SBA’s Director of Government Contracting (D/GC), SBA Counsel, and the contracting officer of the date OHA received the protest. (h) (h) Before OHA decision. (i) (i) After OHA decision. OHA will notify the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested concern of its decision. The decision is effective immediately and is final.
11.301 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies must not require virgin material or supplies composed of or manufactured using virgin material unless compelled by law or regulation or unless virgin material is vital for safety or meeting performance requirements of the contract. (b) (b) (c) (c)
Subpart 15.6 - Unsolicited Proposals No subsections found.
15.406-2 Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data. (a) (a) When certified cost or pricing data are required, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to execute a Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, using the format in this paragraph, and must include the executed certificate in the contract file. (b) (b) The certificate does not constitute a representation as to the accuracy of the contractor’s judgment on the estimate of future costs or projections. It applies to the data upon which the judgment or estimate was based. This distinction between fact and judgment should be clearly understood. If the contractor had information reasonably available at the time of agreement showing that the negotiated price was not based on accurate, complete, and current data, the contractor’s responsibility is not limited by any lack of personal knowledge of the information on the part of its negotiators. (c) (c) The contracting officer and contractor are encouraged to reach a prior agreement on criteria for establishing closing or cutoff dates when appropriate in order to minimize delays associated with proposal updates. Closing or cutoff dates should be included as part of the data submitted with the proposal and, before agreement on price, data should be updated by the contractor to the latest closing or cutoff dates for which the data are available. Use of cutoff dates coinciding with reports is acceptable, as certain data may not be reasonably available before normal periodic closing dates (e.g., actual indirect costs). Data within the contractor’s or a subcontractor’s organization on matters significant to contractor management and to the Government will be treated as reasonably available. What is significant depends upon the circumstances of each acquisition. (d) (d) Possession of a Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data is not a substitute for examining and analyzing the contractor’s proposal. (e) (e) If certified cost or pricing data are requested by the Government and submitted by an offeror, but an exception is later found to apply, the data shall not be considered certified cost or pricing data and shall not be certified in accordance with this subsection.
36.702 Forms for use in contracting for architect-engineer services. (a) (a) Contracting officers must use Standard Form 252, Architect-Engineer Contract, to award fixed-price contracts for architect-engineer services when the services will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (b) (b) The SF 330, Architect-Engineer Qualifications, shall be used to evaluate firms before awarding a contract for architect-engineer services:
52.247 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.236-28 Preparation of Proposals-Construction. (a) (a) Proposals must be (1) submitted on the forms furnished by the Government or on copies of those forms; and (2) manually signed. The person signing a proposal must initial each erasure or change appearing on any proposal form. (b) (b) The proposal form may require offerors to submit proposed prices for one or more items on various bases, including- (c) (c) If the solicitation requires submission of a proposal on all items, failure to do so may result in the proposal being rejected without further consideration. If a proposal on all items is not required, offerors should insert the words "no proposal" in the space provided for any item on which no price is submitted. (d) (d) Alternate proposals will not be considered unless this solicitation authorizes their submission.
35.012 Patent rights. No subsections found.
34.005-6 Full production. (a) (a) Reaffirms the mission need and program objectives; and (b) (b) Grants approval to proceed with production.
42.503-1 Postaward conference arrangements. (a) (a) The contracting officer who decides that a conference is needed is responsible for- (b) (b) When the contracting office initiates a conference, the arrangements may be made by that office or, at its request, by the contract administration office.
53.224 [Reserved] No subsections found.
13.500 General. (a) (a) This subpart authorizes the use of simplified procedures for the acquisition of supplies and services in amounts greater than the simplified acquisition threshold but not exceeding $7.5 million ($15 million for acquisitions as described in 13.500(c)), including options, if the contracting officer reasonably expects, based on the nature of the supplies or services sought, and on market research, that offers will include only commercial products or commercial services. Contracting officers may use any simplified acquisition procedure in this part, subject to any specific dollar limitation applicable to the particular procedure. The purpose of these simplified procedures is to vest contracting officers with additional procedural discretion and flexibility, so that commercial acquisitions in this dollar range may be solicited, offered, evaluated, and awarded in a simplified manner that maximizes efficiency and economy and minimizes burden and administrative costs for both the Government and industry (10 U.S.C. 3205-3208 and chapter 241 and 41 U.S.C.3305, 3306, and chapter 37, Awarding of Contracts). (b) (b) When acquiring commercial products or commercial services using the procedures in this part, the requirements of part  12 apply subject to the order of precedence provided at 12.102(c). This includes use of the provisions and clauses in subpart  12.3. (c) (c) Under 41 U.S.C. 1903, the simplified acquisition procedures authorized in this subpart may be used for acquisitions that do not exceed $15 million when-
32.205 Procedures for offeror-proposed commercial contract financing. (a) (a) Under this procedure, each offeror may propose financing terms. The contracting officer must then determine which offer is in the best interests of the United States. (b) (b) Solicitations. The contracting officer must include in the solicitation the provision at 52.232-31, invitation to Propose Financing Terms. The contracting officer must also- (c) (c) Evaluation of proposals.
32.202-1 Policy. (a) (a) Use of financing in contracts. It is the responsibility of the contractor to provide all resources needed for performance of the contract. Thus, for purchases of commercial products or commercial services, financing of the contract is normally the contractor’s responsibility. However, in some markets the provision of financing by the buyer is a commercial practice. In these circumstances, the contracting officer may include appropriate financing terms in contracts for commercial purchases when doing so will be in the best interest of the Government. (b) (b) Authorization. Commercial interim payments and commercial advance payments may be made under the following circumstances- (c) (c) Difference from other than commercial financing. Government financing of commercial purchases under this subpart is expected to be different from that used for other than commercial purchases under subpart  32.1 and its related subparts. While the contracting officer may adapt techniques and procedures from the other than commercial subparts for use in implementing commercial contract financing arrangements, the contracting officer must have a full understanding of effects of the differing contract environments and of what is needed to protect the interests of the Government in commercial contract financing. (d) (d) Unusual contract financing. Any contract financing arrangement not in accord with the requirements of agency regulations or this part is unusual contract financing and requires advance approval in accordance with agency procedures. If not otherwise specified, such unusual contract financing shall be approved by the head of the contracting activity. (e) (e) Best interest of the Government. The statutes cited in 32.201 do not allow contract financing by the Government unless it is in the best interest of the United States. Agencies may establish standards to determine whether contract financing is in the best interest of the Government. These standards may be for certain types of procurements, certain types of items, or certain dollar levels of procurements.
52.247-46 Shipping Point(s) Used in Evaluation of F.o.b. Origin Offers. (a) (a) If more than one shipping point or plant is designated by the offeror and the offeror fails to indicate the quantity per shipping point or plant before bid opening, the Government will evaluate the offer on the basis of delivery of the entire quantity from the point or plant where cost of transportation is most favorable to the Government. (b) (b) If the offeror, before bid opening (or the closing date specified for receipt of offers) fails to indicate any shipping point or plant, the Government will evaluate the offer on the basis of delivery from the plant at which the contract will be performed, as indicated in the offer. If no plant is indicated in the offer, the offer will be evaluated on the basis of delivery from the Contractor’s business address indicated in the offer. (c) (c) If the offeror uses a shipping point other than that which has been used by the Government as a basis for the evaluation of offers, any increase of transportation costs shall be borne by the Contractor and any savings shall revert to the Government.
42.500 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) A conference; or (b) (b) A letter or other form of written communication.
52.219-33 Nonmanufacturer Rule. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Applicability. (c) (c) Requirements.
31.205-10 Cost of money. (a) (a) General. Cost of money- (b) (b) Cost of money is allowable, provided- (c) (c) Actual interest cost in lieu of the calculated imputed cost of money is unallowable.
31.205-17 Idle facilities and idle capacity costs. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this subsection- (b) (b) The costs of idle facilities are unallowable unless the facilities- (c) (c) Costs of idle capacity are costs of doing business and are a factor in the normal fluctuations of usage or overhead rates from period to period. Such costs are allowable provided the capacity is necessary or was originally reasonable and is not subject to reduction or elimination by subletting, renting, or sale, in accordance with sound business, economics, or security practices. Widespread idle capacity throughout an entire plant or among a group of assets having substantially the same function may be idle facilities. (d) (d) Any costs to be paid directly by the Government for idle facilities or idle capacity reserved for defense mobilization production shall be the subject of a separate agreement.
17.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Multi-year contracting; (b) (b) Options; (c) (c)  Leader company contracting; and (d) (d) The use of reverse auctions to obtain competitive pricing.
22.1501 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.247-41 C.& f. Destination. (a) (a) The term "c.& f. destination," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered on board the ocean vessel to the specified point of destination, with the cost of transportation paid by the Contractor. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
52.241-11 Multiple Service Locations. (a) (a) At any time by written order, the Contracting Officer may designate any location within the service area of the Contractor at which utility service shall commence or be discontinued. Any changes to the service specifications shall be made a part of the contract by the issuance of a contract modification to include the name and location of the service, specifying any different rate, the point of delivery, different service specifications, and any other terms and conditions. (b) (b) The applicable monthly charge specified in this contract shall be equitably prorated from the period in which commencement or discontinuance of service at any service location designated under the Service Specifications shall become effective.
32.202 General. No subsections found.
15.408 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) Changes or Additions to Make-or-Buy Program. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-9, Changes or Additions to Make-or-Buy Program, in solicitations and contracts when it is contemplated that a make-or-buy program will be incorporated in the contract. If a less economical "make" or "buy" categorization is selected for one or more items of significant value, the contracting officer shall use the clause with- (b) (b) Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data. The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert the clause at 52.215-10, Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data, in solicitations and contracts when it is contemplated that certified cost or pricing data will be required from the contractor or any subcontractor (see 15.403-4). (c) (c) Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert the clause at 52.215-11, Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data—Modifications, in solicitations and contracts when it is contemplated that certified cost or pricing data will be required from the contractor or any subcontractor (see 15.403-4) for the pricing of contract modifications, and the clause prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section has not been included. (d) (d) Subcontractor Certified Cost or Pricing Data. The contracting officer shall— (e) (e) Subcontractor Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. The contracting officer shall— (f) (f) Integrity of Unit Prices. (g) (g) Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-15, Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions, in solicitations and contracts for which it is anticipated that certified cost or pricing data will be required or for which any preaward or postaward cost determinations will be subject to part 31. (h) (h) Facilities Capital Cost of Money. The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-16, Facilities Capital Cost of Money, in solicitations expected to result in contracts that are subject to the cost principles for contracts with commercial organizations (see subpart 31.2). (i) (i) Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money. If the prospective contractor does not propose facilities capital cost of money in its offer, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-17, Waiver of Facilities Capital Cost of Money, in the resulting contract. (j) (j) Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-18, Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than Pensions, in solicitations and contracts for which it is anticipated that certified cost or pricing data will be required or for which any preaward or postaward cost determinations will be subject to part 31. (k) (k) Notification of Ownership Changes. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-19, Notification of Ownership Changes, in solicitations and contracts for which it is contemplated that certified cost or pricing data will be required or for which any preaward or postaward cost determination will be subject to subpart 31.2. (l) (l) Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data. Considering the hierarchy at 15.402, the contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-20, Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data, in solicitations if it is reasonably certain that certified cost or pricing data or data other than certified cost or pricing data will be required. This provision also provides instructions to offerors on how to request an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost or pricing data. The contracting officer shall- (m) (m) Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. Considering the hierarchy at 15.402, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-21, Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications, in solicitations and contracts if it is reasonably certain that certified cost or pricing data or data other than certified cost or pricing data will be required for modifications. This clause also provides instructions to contractors on how to request an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost or pricing data. The contracting officer shall- (n) (n) Limitations on Pass-Through Charges.
53.223 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 4.18 - Commercial and Government Entity Code No subsections found.
34.005-1 Competition. (a) (a) The program manager shall, throughout the acquisition process, promote full and open competition and sustain effective competition between alternative major system concepts and sources, as long as it is economically beneficial and practicable to do so. Notice of the proposed acquisition shall be given the broadest and most effective circulation practicable throughout the business, academic, and Government communities. Foreign contractors, technology, and equipment may be considered when it is feasible and permissible to do so. (b) (b) The contracting officer should time solicitation issuance and contract award to maintain continuity of concept development during the transition from with-drawing concept proposer to new contractor.
35.015 Contracts for research with educational institutions and nonprofit organizations. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Basic agreements.
46.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
Subpart 17.8 - Reverse Auctions No subsections found.
28.101-1 Policy on use. (a) (a) A contracting officer shall not require a bid guarantee unless a performance bond or a performance and payment bond is also required (see 28.102 and 28.103). Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this subsection, bid guarantees shall be required whenever a performance bond or a performance and payment bond is required. (b) (b) All types of bid guarantees are acceptable for supply or service contracts (see annual bid bonds and annual performance bonds coverage in 28.001). Only separate bid guarantees are acceptable in connection with construction contracts. Agencies may specify that only separate bid bonds are acceptable in connection with construction contracts. (c) (c) The chief of the contracting office may waive the requirement to obtain a bid guarantee when a performance bond or a performance and payment bond is required if it is determined that a bid guarantee is not in the best interest of the Government for a specific acquisition (e.g., overseas construction, emergency acquisitions, sole-source contracts). Class waivers may be authorized by the agency head or designee.
52.240 [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.607-1 Installment payments. No subsections found.
52.249-8 Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service). (a) (a) (b) (b) If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part, it may acquire, under the terms and in the manner the Contracting Officer considers appropriate, supplies or services similar to those terminated, and the Contractor will be liable to the Government for any excess costs for those supplies or services. However, the Contractor shall continue the work not terminated. (c) (c) Except for defaults of subcontractors at any tier, the Contractor shall not be liable for any excess costs if the failure to perform the contract arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples of such causes include (1) acts of God or of the public enemy, (2) acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, (3) fires, (4) floods, (5) epidemics, (6) quarantine restrictions, (7) strikes, (8) freight embargoes, and (9) unusually severe weather. In each instance the failure to perform must be beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. (d) (d) If the failure to perform is caused by the default of a subcontractor at any tier, and if the cause of the default is beyond the control of both the Contractor and subcontractor, and without the fault or negligence of either, the Contractor shall not be liable for any excess costs for failure to perform, unless the subcontracted supplies or services were obtainable from other sources in sufficient time for the Contractor to meet the required delivery schedule. (e) (e) If this contract is terminated for default, the Government may require the Contractor to transfer title and deliver to the Government, as directed by the Contracting Officer, any (1) completed supplies, and (2) partially completed supplies and materials, parts, tools, dies, jigs, fixtures, plans, drawings, information, and contract rights (collectively referred to as "manufacturing materials" in this clause) that the Contractor has specifically produced or acquired for the terminated portion of this contract. Upon direction of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall also protect and preserve property in its possession in which the Government has an interest. (f) (f) The Government shall pay contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted. The Contractor and Contracting Officer shall agree on the amount of payment for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of the property. Failure to agree will be a dispute under the Disputes clause. The Government may withhold from these amounts any sum the Contracting Officer determines to be necessary to protect the Government against loss because of outstanding liens or claims of former lien holders. (g) (g) If, after termination, it is determined that the Contractor was not in default, or that the default was excusable, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be the same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of the Government. (h) (h) The rights and remedies of the Government in this clause are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.
Subpart 15.1 - Source Selection Processes and Techniques No subsections found.
8.700 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. chapter 85, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled; and (b) (b) The rules of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (41 CFR Chapter 51), which implements the AbilityOne program.
52.236-7 Permits and Responsibilities. No subsections found.
52.227-5 Waiver of Indemnity. No subsections found.
34.104 Contract clause. No subsections found.
26.304 Solicitation provision. No subsections found.
4.201 Procedures. (a) (a) Distribute simultaneously one signed copy or reproduction of the signed contract to the contractor and the paying office; (b) (b) When a contract is assigned to another office for contract administration (see subpart  42.2), provide to that office- (c) (c) Distribute one copy to each accounting and finance office (funding office) whose funds are cited in the contract; (d) (d) When the contract is not assigned for administration but contains a Cost Accounting Standards clause, provide one copy of the contract to the cognizant administrative contracting officer and mark the copy "For Cost Accounting Standards Administration Only" (see 30.601(b)); (e) (e) Provide one copy of each contract or modification that requires audit service to the appropriate field audit office listed in the "Directory of Federal Contract Audit Offices" (see 42.103); and (f) (f) Provide copies of contracts and modifications to those organizations required to perform contract administration support functions (e.g., when manufacturing is performed at multiple sites, the contract administration office cognizant of each location).
15.601 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.106 [Reserved] No subsections found.
4.1601 Policy. (a) (a) Establishment of a Procurement Instrument Identifier (PIID). Agencies shall have in place a process that ensures that each PIID used to identify a solicitation or contract action is unique Governmentwide, and will remain so for at least 20 years from the date of contract award. The PIID shall be used to identify all solicitation and contract actions. The PIID shall also be used to identify solicitation and contract actions in designated support and reporting systems (e.g., Federal Procurement Data System, System for Award Management), in accordance with regulations, applicable authorities, and agency policies and procedures.) (b) (b) Transition of PIID numbering. No later than October 1, 2017, agencies shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section and use the requirements in 4.1602 and 4.1603 for all new solicitations and contract awards. Until an agency’s transition is complete, it shall maintain its 2013 PIID format that is on record with the General Services Administration’s Integrated Award Environment Program Office (which maintains a registry of the agency unique identifier scheme). The 2013 PIID format consisted of alpha characters in the first positions to indicate the agency, followed by alpha-numeric characters; the 2017 format instead has the AAC in the beginning 6 positions. (c) (c) Change in the Procurement Instrument Identifier after its assignment.
52.236-12 Cleaning Up. No subsections found.
Subpart 37.5 - Management Oversight of Service Contracts No subsections found.
22.603 Applicability. (a) (a) Will be performed in the United States, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands; (b) (b) Exceed or may exceed $15,000; and (c) (c) Are not exempt under 22.604.
52.222-11 Subcontracts (Labor Standards). (a) (a) Definition. "Construction, alteration or repair," as used in this clause, means all types of work done by laborers and mechanics employed by the construction Contractor or construction subcontractor on a particular building or work at the site thereof, including without limitation- (b) (b) The Contractor shall insert in any subcontracts for construction, alterations and repairs within the United States the clauses entitled- (c) (c) The prime Contractor shall be responsible for compliance by any subcontractor or lower tier subcontractor performing construction within the United States with all the contract clauses cited in paragraph (b). (d) (d) (e) (e) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e) in all subcontracts for construction within the United States.
3.1104 Mitigation or waiver. (a) (a) In exceptional circumstances, if the contractor cannot satisfactorily prevent a personal conflict of interest as required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of the clause at 52.203-16, Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest, the contractor may submit a request, through the contracting officer, for the head of the contracting activity to- (b) (b) If the head of the contracting activity determines in writing that such action is in the best interest of the Government, the head of the contracting activity may impose conditions that provide mitigation of a personal conflict of interest or grant a waiver. (c) (c) This authority shall not be redelegated.
52.214-3 Amendments to Invitations for Bids. (a) (a) If this solicitation is amended, then all terms and conditions which are not modified remain unchanged. (b) (b)
45.107 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall also insert the clause at 52.245-2, Government Property (Installation Operation Services), in fixed-price service contracts to be performed on a Government installation when Government-furnished property will be provided for initial provisioning only and the Government is not responsible for repair or replacement. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.245-9, Use and Charges, in solicitations and contracts when the clause at 52.245-1 is included. (d) (d) Purchase orders for property repair need not include a Government property clause when the unit acquisition cost of Government property to be repaired does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, unless other Government property (not for repair) is provided.
49.105-3 Termination case file. No subsections found.
1.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
27.402 Policy. (a) (a) To carry out their missions and programs, agencies acquire or obtain access to many kinds of data produced during or used in the performance of their contracts. Agencies require data to- (b) (b) Contractors may have proprietary interests in data. In order to prevent the compromise of these interests, agencies shall protect proprietary data from unauthorized use and disclosure. The protection of such data is also necessary to encourage qualified contractors to participate in and apply innovative concepts to Government programs. In light of these considerations, agencies shall balance the Government’s needs and the contractor’s legitimate proprietary interests.
13.303-3 Preparation of BPAs. (a) (a) The following terms and conditions are mandatory: (b) (b) If the fast payment procedure is used, include the requirements stated in 13.403.
Part 4 - Administrative and Information Matters No subsections found.
52.242-4 Certification of Final Indirect Costs. (a) (a) The Contractor shall- (b) (b) Failure by the Contractor to submit a signed certificate, as described in this clause, may result in final indirect costs at rates unilaterally established by the Contracting Officer. (c) (c) The certificate of final indirect costs shall read as follows:
52.214-34 Submission of Offers in the English Language. No subsections found.
49.406 Liquidation of liability. No subsections found.
Subpart 5.6 - Publicizing Multi-Agency Use Contracts No subsections found.
23.105 Exceptions. (a) (a)  Contracts performed or supplies delivered outside of the United States, unless the agency head determines that such application is in the interest of the United States. (b) (b) Weapon systems; however, compliance with applicable agency affirmative procurement programs is required for recovered materials per 23.107-1 (see 23.109(b)) (42 U.S.C. 6962) and for alternatives for ozone depleting substances per 23.107-4 (see 23.109(d)) (42 U.S.C. 7671l), unless a written justification exists as described at 23.104(a) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(1) and 7 U.S.C. 8102(a)(1)(B)). (c) (c) Energy-consuming products or systems designed or procured for combat or combat-related missions are not subject to the requirements in 23.107-3 (42 U.S.C. 8259b(a)(5)). (d) (d) Biobased products to be used in military equipment (products or systems designed or procured for combat or combat-related missions), spacecraft systems, or launch support equipment are not subject to the requirements in 23.107-2 (7 CFR 3201.3(e)).
47.304-5 Exceptions. (a) (a) Unusual conditions or circumstances may require the use of terms other than f.o.b. origin or f.o.b. destination. Such conditions or circumstances include, but are not limited to- (b) (b) Contracting officers shall obtain assistance from transportation officers before issuing solicitations when unusual conditions or circumstances exist that relate to f.o.b. terms.
36.609-4 Requirements for registration of designers. (a) (a) Outside the United States and its outlying areas; or (b) (b) In a State or outlying area of the United States that does not have registration requirements for the particular field involved.
43.201 General. (a) (a) Generally, Government contracts contain a changes clause that permits the contracting officer to make unilateral changes, in designated areas, within the general scope of the contract. These are accomplished by issuing written change orders on Standard Form 30, Amendment of Solicitation/Modification of Contract (SF 30), unless otherwise provided (see 43.301). (b) (b) The contractor must continue performance of the contract as changed, except that in cost-reimbursement or incrementally funded contracts the contractor is not obligated to continue performance or incur costs beyond the limits established in the Limitation of Cost or Limitation of Funds clause (see 32.706-2). (c) (c) The contracting officer may issue a change order by electronic means without a SF 30 under unusual or urgent circumstances, provided that the message contains substantially the information required by the SF 30 and immediate action is taken to issue the SF 30.
49.303-2 Submission of inventory disposal schedules. No subsections found.
3.601 Policy. (a) (a) Except as specified in 3.602, a contracting officer shall not knowingly award a contract to a Government employee or to a business concern or other organization owned or substantially owned or controlled by one or more Government employees. This policy is intended to avoid any conflict of interest that might arise between the employees’ interests and their Government duties, and to avoid the appearance of favoritism or preferential treatment by the Government toward its employees. (b) (b) For purposes of this subpart, special Government employees (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202) performing services as experts, advisors, or consultants, or as members of advisory committees, are not considered Government employees unless-
12.201 General. No subsections found.
25.203 Preaward determinations. (a) (a) For any acquisition, an offeror may request from the contracting officer a determination concerning the inapplicability of the Buy American statute for specifically identified construction materials. The time for submitting the request is specified in the solicitation in paragraph (b) of either 52.225-10 or 52.225-12, whichever applies. The information and supporting data that must be included in the request are also specified in the solicitation in paragraphs (c) and (d) of either 52.225-9 or 52.225-11, whichever applies. (b) (b) Before award, the contracting officer must evaluate all requests based on the information provided and may supplement this information with other readily available information.
Subpart 42.12 - Novation and Change-of-Name Agreements No subsections found.
35.017-6 Master list of FFRDC’s. No subsections found.
48.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
9.108-4 Waiver. No subsections found.
4.1500 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.207 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 25.6 - American Recovery and Reinvestment Act-Buy American statute-Construction Materials No subsections found.
6.303-2 Content. (a) (a) Each justification shall contain sufficient facts and rationale to justify the use of the specific authority cited. (b) (b) As a minimum, each justification, except those for sole-source 8(a) contracts over $25 million (see paragraph (d) of this section), shall include the following information: (c) (c) Each justification shall include evidence that any supporting data that is the responsibility of technical or requirements personnel (e.g., verifying the Government’s minimum needs or schedule requirements or other rationale for other than full and open competition) and which form a basis for the justification have been certified as complete and accurate by the technical or requirements personnel. (d) (d) As a minimum, each justification for a sole-source 8(a) contract over $25 million shall include the following information:
17.108 Congressional notification. (a) (a) Except for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, a multi-year contract which includes a cancellation ceiling in excess of $15 million may not be awarded until the head of the agency gives written notification of the proposed contract and of the proposed cancellation ceiling for that contract to the committees on appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate and the appropriate oversight committees of the House and Senate for the agency in question. Information on such committees may not be readily available to contracting officers. Accordingly, agencies should provide such information through its internal regulations. The contract may not be awarded until the thirty-firstday after the date of notification. (b) (b) For DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, a multi-year contract which includes a cancellation ceiling in excess of $150 million may not be awarded until the head of the agency gives written notification of the proposed contract and of the proposed cancellation ceiling for that contract to the committees on armed services and appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate. The contract may not be awarded until the thirty-firstday after the date of notification.
52.217-2 Cancellation Under Multi-year Contracts. (a) (a) "Cancellation," as used in this clause, means that the Government is canceling its requirements for all supplies or services in program years subsequent to that in which notice of cancellation is provided. Cancellation shall occur by the date or within the time period specified in the Schedule, unless a later date is agreed to, if the Contracting Officer- (b) (b) Except for cancellation under this clause or termination under the Default clause, any reduction by the Contracting Officer in the requirements of this contract shall be considered a termination under the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause. (c) (c) If cancellation under this clause occurs, the Contractor will be paid a cancellation charge not over the cancellation ceiling specified in the Schedule as applicable at the time of cancellation. (d) (d) The cancellation charge will cover only- (e) (e) The cancellation charge shall be computed and the claim made for it as if the claim were being made under the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause of this contract. The Contractor shall submit the claim promptly but no later than 1 year from the date- (f) (f) The Contractor’s claim may include- (g) (g) The claim shall not include- (h) (h) This contract may include an Option clause with the period for exercising the option limited to the date in the contract for notification that funds are available for the next succeeding program year. If so, the Contractor agrees not to include in option quantities any costs of a startup or nonrecurring nature that have been fully set forth in the contract. The Contractor further agrees that the option quantities will reflect only those recurring costs and a reasonable profit or fee necessary to furnish the additional option quantities. (i) (i) Quantities added to the original contract through the Option clause of this contract shall be included in the quantity canceled for the purpose of computing allowable cancellation charges.
22.502 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 49.2 - Additional Principles for Fixed-Price Contracts Terminated for Convenience No subsections found.
27.404-3 Copyrighted works. (a) (a) Data first produced in the performance of a contract. (b) (b) Data not first produced in the performance of a contract.
52.209-10 Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) If the contractor reorganizes as an inverted domestic corporation or becomes a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation at any time during the period of performance of this contract, the Government may be prohibited from paying for Contractor activities performed after the date when it becomes an inverted domestic corporation or subsidiary. The Government may seek any available remedies in the event the Contractor fails to perform in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract as a result of Government action under this clause. (c) (c) Exceptions to this prohibition are located at 9.108-2. (d) (d) In the event the Contractor becomes either an inverted domestic corporation, or a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation during contract performance, the Contractor shall give written notice to the Contracting Officer within five business days from the date of the inversion event.
8.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
19.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
31.205-50 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.222-56 Certification Regarding Trafficking in Persons Compliance Plan. (a) (a) The term "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," is defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Combating Trafficking in Persons" (FAR clause 52.222-50). (b) (b) The apparent successful Offeror shall submit, prior to award, a certification, as specified in paragraph (c) of this provision, for the portion (if any) of the contract that- (c) (c) The certification shall state that-
46.301 Contractor inspection requirements. No subsections found.
52.232-35 Designation of Office	for Government Receipt of Electronic Funds Transfer Information. (a) (a) As	provided in paragraph (b) of the clause at 52.232-34, Payment by	Electronic Funds Transfer-Other than System for Award Management,	the Government has designated the office cited in paragraph (c)	of this clause as the office to receive the Contractor’s electronic	funds transfer (EFT) information, in lieu of the payment office	of this contract. (b) (b) The Contractor	shall send all EFT information, and any changes to EFT information	to the office designated in paragraph (c) of this clause. The Contractor	shall not send EFT information to the payment office, or any other	office than that designated in paragraph (c). The Government need	not use any EFT information sent to any office other than that designated in	paragraph (c).
8.608 Protection of classified and sensitive information. (a) (a) Classified data; (b) (b) Geographic data regarding the location of- (c) (c) Personal or financial information about any individual private citizen, including information relating to such person’s real property however described, without the prior consent of the individual.
Part 23 - Environment, Sustainable Acquisition, and Material Safety No subsections found.
19.602-4 Awarding the contract. (a) (a) If new information causes the contracting officer to determine that the concern referred to the SBA is actually responsible to perform the contract, and award has not already been made under paragraph (c) of this subsection, the contracting officer shall reverse the determination of nonresponsibility, notify the SBA of this action, withdraw the referral, and proceed to award the contract. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall award the contract to the concern in question if the SBA issues a COC after receiving the referral. An SBA-certified concern shall not be required to meet any other requirements of responsibility. SBA COC’s are conclusive with respect to all elements of responsibility of prospective small business contractors. Where SBA issues a COC, the contracting officer may decide not to award to that offeror for reasons unrelated to responsibility. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall proceed with the acquisition and award the contract to another appropriately selected and responsible offeror if the SBA has not issued a COC within 15 business days (or a longer period of time agreed to with the SBA) after receiving the referral.
52.242-16 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.110 Soliciting from a single source. No subsections found.
49.602-2 Inventory forms. No subsections found.
22.1600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
49.110 Settlement negotiation memorandum. (a) (a) The TCO shall, at the conclusion of negotiations, prepare a settlement negotiation memorandum describing the principal elements of the settlement for inclusion in the termination case file and for use by reviewing authorities. Pricing aspects of the settlement shall be documented in accordance with 15.406-3. The memorandum shall be distributed in accordance with 15.406-3. (b) (b) If the settlement was negotiated on the basis of individual items, the TCO shall specify the factors considered for each item. If the settlement was negotiated on an overall lump-sum basis, the TCO need not evaluate each item or group of items individually, but shall support the total amount of the recommended settlement in reasonable detail. The memorandum shall include explanations of matters involving differences and doubtful questions settled by agreement, and the factors considered. The TCO should include any other matters that will assist reviewing authorities in understanding the basis for the settlement.
28.305 Overseas workers’ compensation and war-hazard insurance. (a) (a) "Public-work contract," as used in this subpart, means any contract for a fixed improvement or for any other project, fixed or not, for the public use of the United States or its allies, involving construction, alteration, removal, or repair, including projects or operations under service contracts and projects in connection with the national defense or with war activities, dredging, harbor improvements, dams, roadways, and housing, as well as preparatory and ancillary work in connection therewith at the site or on the project. (b) (b) The Defense Base Act (42 U.S.C.1651, etseq.) extends the Longshoremen’s and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901) to various classes of employees working outside the United States, including those engaged in performing- (c) (c) When the Defense Base Act applies (see 42 U.S.C.1651, etseq.) to these employees, the benefits of the Longshoremen’s and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act are extended through operation of the War Hazards Compensation Act (42 U.S.C.1701, etseq.) to protect the employees against the risk of war hazards (injury, death, capture, or detention). When, by means of an insurance policy or a self-insurance program, the contractor provides the workers’ compensation coverage required by the Defense Base Act, the contractor’s employees automatically receive war-hazard risk protection. (d) (d) When the agency head recommends a waiver to the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary may waive the applicability of the Defense Base Act to any contract, subcontract, work location, or classification of employees. (e) (e) If the Defense Base Act is waived for some or all of the contractor’s employees, the benefits of the War Hazards Compensation Act are automatically waived with respect to those employees for whom the Defense Base Act is waived. For those employees, the contractor shall provide workers’ compensation coverage against the risk of work injury or death and assume liability toward the employees and their beneficiaries for war-hazard injury, death, capture, or detention. The contract shall provide either that the costs of this liability or the reasonable costs of insurance against this liability shall be allowed as a cost under the contract.
52.204-9 Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel. (a) (a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24 and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. (b) (b) The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following, unless otherwise determined by the Government: (c) (c) The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements. (d) (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor’s employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer.
32.103 Progress payments under construction contracts. No subsections found.
47.305-16 Shipping characteristics. (a) (a) Required shipping weights. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-59, F.o.b. Origin-Carload and Truckload Shipments, when it is contemplated that they may result in f.o.b. origin contracts with shipments in carloads or truckloads. This will facilitate realistic freight cost evaluations of offers and ensure that contractors produce economical shipments of agreed size. (b) (b) Guaranteed shipping characteristics. (c) (c) Minimum size of shipments. When volume rates may apply, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-61, F.o.b. Origin-Minimum Size of Shipments. (d) (d) Specific quantities unknown.
52.204-10 Reporting Executive	Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards. (a) (a) Definitions.	As used in this clause: (b) (b) Section	2(d)(2) of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act	of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282), as amended by section 6202 of the Government	Funding Transparency Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-252), requires the	Contractor to report information on subcontract awards. The law	requires all reported information be made public, therefore, the	Contractor is responsible for notifying its subcontractors that	the required information will be made public. (c) (c) Nothing	in this clause requires the disclosure of classified information (d) (d) (e) (e) The Contractor	shall not split or break down first-tier subcontract awards to a	value below the threshold specified	in FAR 4.1403(a), on the date	of subcontract award, to avoid the reporting requirements in	paragraph (d) of this clause. (f) (f) The Contractor	is required to report information on a first-tier subcontract covered	by paragraph (d) when the subcontract is awarded. Continued reporting	on the same subcontract is not required unless one of the reported	data elements changes during the performance of the subcontract.	The Contractor is not required to make further reports after the	first-tier subcontract expires. (g) (g) (h) (h) The FSRS	database at http://www.fsrs.gov will be prepopulated	with some information from SAM and the FPDS database. If FPDS information	is incorrect, the contractor should notify the contracting officer.	If the SAM information is incorrect, the contractor is responsible	for correcting this information.
40.202-1 Scope. (a) (a) Section 40.202 prescribes policies and procedures regarding the procurement and operation of unmanned aircraft systems, which includes unmanned aircraft (i.e., drones) and associated elements. (b) (b) The authorities in 40.203 expire on December 22, 2028 (section 1833 of Pub. L. 118-31, 41 U.S.C. 3901 note prec.).
13.106-3 Award and documentation. (a) (a) Basis for award. Before making award, the contracting officer must determine that the proposed price is fair and reasonable. (b) (b) File documentation and retention. Keep documentation to a minimum. Purchasing offices shall retain data supporting purchases (paper or electronic) to the minimum extent and duration necessary for management review purposes (see subpart  4.8). The following illustrate the extent to which quotation or offer information should be recorded: (c) (c) Notification. For acquisitions that do not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and for which automatic notification is not provided through an electronic commerce method that employs widespread electronic public notice, notification to unsuccessful suppliers shall be given only if requested or required by 5.301. (d) (d) Request for information. If a supplier requests information on an award that was based on factors other than price alone, a brief explanation of the basis for the contract award decision shall be provided (see 15.503(b)(2)). (e) (e) Taxpayer Identification Number. If an oral solicitation is used, the contracting officer shall ensure that the copy of the award document sent to the payment office is annotated with the contractor’s Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and type of organization (see 4.203), unless this information will be obtained from some other source (e.g., centralized database). The contracting officer shall disclose to the contractor that the TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the contractor’s relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)).
37.302 Bonds or other security. (a) (a) Ensure completion of the work; (b) (b) Protect property to be retained by the Government; (c) (c) Protect property to be provided as compensation to the contractor; and (d) (d) Protect the Government against damage to adjoining property.
1.108 FAR conventions. (a) (a) Words and terms. Definitions in part  2 apply to the entire regulation unless specifically defined in another part, subpart, section, provision, or clause. Words or terms defined in a specific part, subpart, section, provision, or clause have that meaning when used in that part, subpart, section, provision, or clause. Undefined words retain their common dictionary meaning. (b) (b) Delegation of authority. Each authority is delegable unless specifically stated otherwise (see 1.102-5(b)). (c) (c) Dollar thresholds. Unless otherwise specified, a specific dollar threshold for the purpose of applicability is the final anticipated dollar value of the action, including the dollar value of all options. If the action establishes a maximum quantity of supplies or services to be acquired or establishes a ceiling price or establishes the final price to be based on future events, the final anticipated dollar value must be the highest final priced alternative to the Government, including the dollar value of all options. (d) (d) Application of FAR changes to solicitations and contracts. Unless otherwise specified- (e) (e) Citations. When the FAR cites a statute, Executive order, Office of Management and Budget circular, Office of Federal Procurement Policy policy letter, or relevant portion of the Code of Federal Regulations, the citation includes all applicable amendments, unless otherwise stated. (f) (f) Imperative sentences. When an imperative sentence directs action, the contracting officer is responsible for the action, unless another party is expressly cited.
19.705-2 Determining the need for a subcontracting plan. (a) (a) (b) (b) Determine whether subcontracting possibilities exist by considering relevant factors such as- (c) (c) If it is determined that there are no subcontracting possibilities, the determination shall include a detailed rationale, be approved at a level above the contracting officer, and placed in the contract file. (d) (d) In solicitations for negotiated acquisitions, the contracting officer may require the submission of subcontracting plans with initial offers, or at any other time prior to award. In determining when subcontracting plans should be required, as well as when and with whom plans should be negotiated, the contracting officer must consider the integrity of the competitive process, the goal of affording maximum practicable opportunity for small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns to participate, and the burden placed on offerors. (e) (e) A contract may not have more than one subcontracting plan. However, a contracting officer may establish separate subcontracting goals for each order under an indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract (19.705-1(b)(2)). When a contract modification exceeds the subcontracting plan threshold (see 19.702(a)) or an option is exercised, the goals of an existing subcontracting plan shall be amended to reflect any new subcontracting opportunities not envisioned at the time of contract award. These goal changes do not apply retroactively. (f) (f) If a subcontracting plan has been added to the contract due to a modification (see 19.702(a)(1)(iii)) or a size re-representation (see 19.301-2(e)), the subcontracting goals apply from the date of incorporation of the subcontracting plan into the contract and the contractor's achievements must be reported on the ISR (or the SF-294, if applicable) on a cumulative basis from the date of incorporation of the subcontracting plan into the contract.
25.102 Policy. No subsections found.
32.806 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.232-24, Prohibition of Assignment of Claims, in solicitations and contracts for which a determination has been made under agency regulations that the prohibition of assignment of claims is in the Government’s interest.
52.241-5 Contractor’s Facilities. (a) (a) The Contractor, at its expense, unless otherwise provided for in this contract, shall furnish, install, operate, and maintain all facilities required to furnish service hereunder, and measure such service at the point of delivery specified in the Service Specifications. Titleto all such facilities shall remain with the Contractor and the Contractor shall be responsible for loss or damage to such facilities, except that the Government shall be responsible to the extent that loss or damage has been caused by the Government’s negligent acts or omissions. (b) (b) Notwithstanding any terms expressed in this clause, the Contractor shall obtain approval from the Contracting Officer prior to any equipment installation, construction, or removal. The Government hereby grants to the Contractor, free of any rental or similar charge, but subject to the limitations specified in this contract, a revocable permit or license to enter the service location for any proper purpose under this contract. This permit or license includes use of the site or sites agreed upon by the parties hereto for the installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of the facilities of the Contractor required to be located upon Government premises. All applicable taxes and other charges in connection therewith, together with all liability of the Contractor in construction, operation, maintenance and repair of such facilities, shall be the obligation of the Contractor. (c) (c) Authorized representatives of the Contractor will be allowed access to the facilities on Government premises at reasonable times to perform the obligations of the Contractor regarding such facilities. It is expressly understood that the Government may limit or restrict the right of access herein granted in any manner considered necessary (e.g., national security, public safety). (d) (d) Unless otherwise specified in this contract, the Contractor shall, at its expense, remove such facilities and restore Government premises to their original condition as near as practicable within a reasonable time after the Government terminates this contract. In the event such termination of this contract is due to the fault of the Contractor, such facilities may be retained in place at the option of the Government for a reasonable time while the Government attempts to obtain service elsewhere comparable to that provided for hereunder.
41.701 Formats for utility service specifications. (a) (a) The following specification formats for use in acquiring utility services are available from the address specified at 41.301(a) and may be used and modified at the agency’s discretion: (b) (b) Contracting officers may modify the specification format referenced in paragraph (a) of this section and attach technical items, details on Government ownership of equipment and real property and maintenance or repair obligations, maps or drawings of delivery points, and other information deemed necessary to fully define the service conditions. (c) (c) The specifications and attachments (see paragraph (b) of this section) shall be inserted in Section C of the utility service solicitation and contract.
25.703-2 Iran Sanctions Act. (a) (a) Certification. (b) (b) Remedies. Upon the determination of a false certification under paragraph (a) of this section, the agency shall take one or more of the following actions: (c) (c) Exception for trade agreements. The certification requirements of paragraph (a) of this subsection do not apply if the acquisition is subject to trade agreements and the offeror certifies that all the offered products are designated country end products or designated country construction material (see subpart 25.4).
32.304-8 Other borrowing. (a) (a) Because of the limitations under guaranteed loans, some contractors seek to supplement the loan by other borrowing (outside the guarantee) from the financing institution or other sources. It has been recognized in practice that, while prohibition of borrowings outside the guaranteed loan is preferable when practicable in a given V-loan case, such other borrowings should be permitted when necessary. (b) (b) If the agency consents to the contractor obtaining other borrowing during the guaranteed loan period, the agency shall apply the following restrictions:
14.206 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.1017 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 22.15 - Prohibition of Acquisition of Products Produced by Forced or Indentured Child Labor No subsections found.
22.1003-2 Geographical coverage of the Act. No subsections found.
39.002 Definitions. No subsections found.
16.203-1 Description. (a) (a) A fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment provides for upward and downward revision of the stated contract price upon the occurrence of specified contingencies. Economic price adjustments are of three general types: (b) (b) The contracting officer may use a fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment in conjunction with an award-fee incentive (see 16.404) and performance or delivery incentives (see 16.402-2 and 16.402-3) when the award fee or incentive is based solely on factors other than cost. The contract type remains fixed-price with economic price adjustment when used with these incentives.
36.213 Special procedures for sealed bidding in construction contracting. No subsections found.
4.805 Storage, handling, and contract files. (a) (a) Agencies must prescribe	procedures for the handling, storing, and disposing of contract files, in	accordance with the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)	General Records Schedule 1.1, Financial Management	and Reporting Records. The Financial Management and Reporting Records can be	found at http://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/grs.html. These procedures	must take into account documents held in all types of media, including	microfilm and various electronic media. Agencies may change the original	medium to facilitate storage as long as the requirements of the part, law,	and other regulations are satisfied. The process used to create and store	records must record and reproduce the original document, including	signatures and other written and graphic images completely, accurately, and	clearly. Data transfer, storage, and retrieval procedures must protect the	original data from alteration. Unless law or other regulations require	signed originals to be kept, they may be destroyed after the responsible	agency official verifies that record copies on alternate media and copies	reproduced from the record copy are accurate, complete, and clear	representations of the originals. When original documents have been	converted to alternate media for storage, the requirements in Table 4-1 of this section also apply to	the record copies in the alternate media. (b) (b) If administrative records are mixed with program records and cannot be economically segregated, the entire file should be kept for the period of time approved for the program records. Similarly, if documents described in the following table are part of a subject or case file that documents activities that are not described in the table, they should be treated in the same manner as the files of which they are a part. (c) (c) An agency that requires a shorter retention period than those identified in Table 4-1 shall request approval from NARA through the agency’s records officer.
9.307 Government administration procedures. (a) (a) Before the contractor ships the first article, or the first article test report, to the Government laboratory or other activity responsible for approval at the address specified in the contract, the contract administration office shall provide that activity with as much advance notification as is feasible of the forthcoming shipment, and- (b) (b) The Government laboratory or other activity responsible for first article testing or evaluation shall inform the contracting office whether to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the first article. The contracting officer shall then notify the contractor of the action taken and furnish a copy of the notice to the contract administration office. The notice shall include the first article shipment number, when available, and the applicable line item number. Any changes in the drawings, designs, or specifications determined by the contracting officer to be necessary shall be made under the Changes clause, and not by the notice of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval furnished the contractor.
50.101-1 Authority. (a) (a) Pub. L. 85-804 empowers the President to authorize agencies exercising functions in connection with the national defense to enter into, amend, and modify contracts, without regard to other provisions of law related to making, performing, amending, or modifying contracts, whenever the President considers that such action would facilitate the national defense. (b) (b) E.O. 10789 authorizes the heads of the following agencies to exercise the authority conferred by Pub. L. 85-804 and to delegate it to other officials within the agency: the Government Publishing Office; the Department of Homeland Security; the Tennessee Valley Authority; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; the General Services Administration; the Defense, Army, Navy, Air Force, Treasury, Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, and Transportation Departments; the Department of Energy for functions transferred to that Department from other authorized agencies; and any other agency that may be authorized by the President.
1.301 Policy. (a) (a) (b) (b) Agency heads shall establish procedures to	ensure that agency acquisition regulations are published for comment in	the Federal Register in conformance with the procedures in subpart  1.5 and	as required by 41 U.S.C.	1707, and other applicable statutes, when they have a significant	effect beyond the internal operating procedures of the agency or have a	significant cost or administrative impact on contractors or offerors.	However, publication is not required for issuances that merely implement or	supplement higher level issuances that have previously undergone the public	comment process, unless such implementation or supplementation results in an	additional significant cost or administrative impact on contractors or	offerors or effect beyond the internal operating procedures of the issuing	organization. Issuances under 1.301(a)(2)	need not be publicized for public comment. (c) (c) When adopting acquisition regulations, agencies shall ensure that they comply with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq.) as implemented in 5 CFR 1320 (see 1.106) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601, et seq.). Normally, when a law requires publication of a proposed regulation, the Regulatory Flexibility Act applies and agencies must prepare written analyses, or certifications as provided in the law. (d) (d) Agency acquisition regulations implementing or supplementing the FAR are, for-
19.808-1 Sole source. (a) (a) The SBA may not accept for negotiation a sole-source 8(a) contract that exceeds $25 million unless the requesting agency has completed a justification in accordance with the requirements of 6.303. (b) (b) The SBA is responsible for initiating negotiations with the agency within the time established by the agency. If the SBA does not initiate negotiations within the agreed time and the agency cannot allow additional time, the agency may, after notifying the SBA, proceed with the acquisition from other sources. (c) (c) The SBA should participate, whenever practicable, in negotiating the contracting terms. When mutually agreeable, the SBA may authorize the contracting officer to negotiate directly with the 8(a) participant. Whether or not direct negotiations take place, the SBA is responsible for approving the resulting contract before award. (d) (d) An 8(a) participant must represent that it is a small business in accordance with the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract. (e) (e) A concern must be a current participant in the 8(a) program at the time of an 8(a) sole-source award. (f) (f) An 8(a) participant owned by an Alaska Native Corporation, Indian Tribe, Native Hawaiian Organization, or Community Development Corporation may not receive an 8(a) sole-source award that is a follow-on contract to an 8(a) contract, if the predecessor contract was performed by another 8(a) participant (or former 8(a) participant) owned by the same Alaska Native Corporation, Indian Tribe, Native Hawaiian Organization, or Community Development Corporation (See 13 CFR 124.109 through 124.111).
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
9.110-3 Policy. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, 10 U.S.C. 983 prohibits the covered agency from providing funds by contract to an institution of higher education if the Secretary of Defense determines that the institution has a policy or practice that prohibits or in effect prevents— (b) (b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to an institution of higher education if the Secretary of Defense determines that—
4.804-5 Procedures for closing out contract files. (a) (a) The contract administration office is responsible for initiating (automated or manual) administrative closeout of the contract after receiving evidence of its physical completion. At the outset of this process, the contract administration office must review the contract funds status and notify the contracting office of any excess funds the contract administration office might deobligate. When complete, the administrative closeout procedures must ensure that- (b) (b) When the actions in paragraph (a) of this section have been verified, the contracting officer administering the contract must ensure that a contract completion statement, containing the following information, is prepared: (c) (c) When the statement is completed, the contracting officer must ensure that-
Subpart 23.8 - Reserved No subsections found.
36.213-2 Presolicitation notices. (a) (a) Unless the requirement is waived by the head of the contracting activity or a designee, the contracting officer shall issue presolicitation notices on any construction requirement when the proposed contract is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. Presolicitation notices may also be used when the proposed contract is not expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. These notices shall be issued sufficiently in advance of the invitation for bids to stimulate the interest of the greatest number of prospective bidders. (b) (b) Presolicitation notices must-
32.504 Subcontracts under prime contracts providing progress payments. (a) (a) Subcontracts may include either performance-based payments, provided they meet the criteria in 32.1003, or progress payments, provided they meet the criteria in subpart  32.5 for customary progress payments, but not both. Subcontracts for commercial purchases may include commercial product or commercial service purchase financing terms, provided they meet the criteria in 32.202-1. (b) (b) The contractor’s requests for progress payments may include the full amount of commercial product or commercial service purchase financing payments, performance-based payments, or progress payments to a subcontractor, whether paid or unpaid, provided that unpaid amounts are limited to amounts determined due and that the contractor will pay- (c) (c) If the contractor is considering making unusual progress payments to a subcontractor, the parties will be guided by the policies in 32.501-2. If the Government approves unusual progress payments for the subcontract, the contracting officer must issue a contract modification to specify the new rate in paragraph (j)(6) of the clause at 52.232-16, Progress Payments, in the prime contract. This will allow the contractor to include the progress payments to the subcontractor in the cost basis for progress payments by the Government. This modification is not a deviation and does not require the clearance prescribed in 32.502-2(b). (d) (d) The contractor has a duty to ensure that financing payments to subcontractors conform to the standards and principles prescribed in paragraph (j) of the Progress Payments clause in the prime contract. Although the contracting officer should, to the extent appropriate, review the subcontract as part of the overall administration of progress payments in the prime contract, there is no special requirement for contracting officer review or consent merely because the subcontract includes financing payments, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. However, the contracting officer must ensure that the contractor has installed the necessary management control systems, including internal audit procedures. (e) (e) When financing payments are in the form of progress payments, the Progress Payments clause at 52.232-16 requires that the subcontract include the substance of the Progress Payments clause in the prime contract, modified to indicate that the contractor, not the Government, awards the subcontract and administers the progress payments. The following exceptions apply to wording modifications: (f) (f) When financing payments are in the form of performance-based payments, the Performance-Based Payments clause at 52.232-32 requires that the subcontract terms include the substance of the Performance-Based Payments clause, modified to indicate that the contractor, not the Government, awards the subcontract and administers the performance-based payments, and include appropriately worded modifications similar to those noted in paragraph (e) of this section. (g) (g) When financing payments are in the form of commercial product or commercial service purchase financing, the subcontract must include a contract financing clause structured in accordance with 32.206.
52.203-14 Display of Hotline Poster(s). (a) (a) Definition. (b) (b) Display of fraud hotline poster(s). Except as provided in paragraph (c)— (c) (c) If the Contractor has implemented a business ethics and conduct awareness program, including a reporting mechanism, such as a hotline poster, then the Contractor need not display any agency fraud hotline posters as required in paragraph (b) of this clause, other than any required DHS posters. (d) (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts that exceed the threshold specified in Federal Acquisition Regulation 3.1004(b)(1) on the date of subcontract award, except when the subcontract—
42.201 Contract administration responsibilities. (a) (a) For each contract assigned for administration, the contract administration office (CAO) (see 2.101) shall- (b) (b) The Defense Contract Management Agency and other agencies offer a wide variety of contract administration and support services.
27.203-2 Contract clause. No subsections found.
3.802 Statutory prohibition and requirement. (a) (a) 31 U.S.C.1352 prohibits a recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement from using appropriated funds to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal actions. (b) (b) 31 U.S.C.1352 also requires offerors to furnish a declaration consisting of both a certification and a disclosure, with periodic updates of the disclosure after contract award. These requirements are contained in the provision at 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions, and the clause at 52.203-12, Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions.
24.203 Policy. (a) (a) The Act specifies, among other things, how agencies shall make their records available upon public request, imposes strict time standards for agency responses, and exempts certain records from public disclosure. Each agency’s implementation of these requirements is located in its respective title of the Code of Federal Regulations and referenced in subpart  24.2 of its implementing acquisition regulations. (b) (b) Contracting officers may receive requests for records that may be exempted from mandatory public disclosure. The exemptions most often applicable are those relating to classified information, to trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information, to interagency or intra-agency memoranda, or to personal and medical information pertaining to an individual. Other exemptions include agency personnel practices, and law enforcement. Since these requests often involve complex issues requiring an in-depth knowledge of a large and increasing body of court rulings and policy guidance, contracting officers are cautioned to comply with the implementing regulations of their agency and to obtain necessary guidance from the agency officials having Freedom of Information Act responsibility. If additional assistance is needed, authorized agency officials may contact the Department of Justice, Office of Information and Privacy. A Freedom of Information Act guide and other resources are available at the Department of Justice website under FOIA reference materials: http://www.usdoj.gov/oip.
28.106-7 Withholding contract payments. (a) (a) During contract performance, agencies shall not withhold payments due contractors or assignees because subcontractors or suppliers have not been paid. (b) (b) If, after completion of the contract work, the Government receives written notice from the surety regarding the contractor’s failure to meet its obligation to its subcontractors or suppliers, the contracting officer shall withhold final payment. However, the surety must agree to hold the Government harmless from any liability resulting from withholding the final payment. The contracting officer will authorize final payment upon agreement between the contractor and surety or upon a judicial determination of the rights of the parties. (c) (c) For any withholding incident to the labor standards provisions of the contract, see part  22.
22.2101 Definitions. No subsections found.
13.201 General. (a) (a) Agency heads are encouraged to delegate micro-purchase authority (see 1.603-3). (b) (b) The Governmentwide commercial purchase card shall be the preferred method to purchase and to pay for micro-purchases (see 2.101). (c) (c) Purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold may be conducted using any of the methods described in subpart 13.3, provided the purchaser is authorized and trained, pursuant to agency procedures, to use those methods. (d) (d) Micro-purchases do not require provisions or clauses, except as provided at 13.202 and 32.1110. This paragraph takes precedence over any other FAR requirement to the contrary, but does not prohibit the use of any clause. (e) (e) The requirements in part  8 apply to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold. (f) (f) The procurement requirements in 23.1 apply to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold. (g) (g) (h) (h) When using the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as a method of payment, purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold are exempt from verification in the System for Award Management as to whether the contractor has a delinquent debt subject to collection under the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). (i) (i) Do not purchase any hardware, software, or services developed or provided by Kaspersky Lab that the Government will use on or after October 1, 2018. (See 4.2002). (j) (j) (k) (k) The prohibition in subpart  4.22 on use of a covered application (“TikTok”) applies to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold where the performance of the contract may require the presence or use of a covered application, (e.g., where social media advertising services might be part of the procurement), unless an exception is granted in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-23-13 (see 4.2202). (l) (l) Do not procure or obtain, or extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain, any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, including contractor use of covered articles or sources, if prohibited from doing so by an applicable Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act (FASCSA) order issued by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, or Secretary of Homeland Security (see 4.2303). (m) (m) The prohibitions on unmanned aircraft systems (e.g., drones) in 40.202 apply to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold.
46.706 Warranty terms and conditions. (a) (a) To facilitate the pricing and enforcement of warranties, the contracting officer shall ensure that warranties clearly state the- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall consider the following guidelines when preparing warranty terms and conditions:
Subpart 25.11 - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses No subsections found.
42.1301 General. No subsections found.
26.402 Policy. No subsections found.
4.2201 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 19.14 - Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Program No subsections found.
37.112 Government use of private sector temporaries. No subsections found.
Subchapter E - General Contracting Requirements No subsections found.
Subpart 30.3 - CAS Rules and Regulations [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.404-1 Types of wage determinations. (a) (a) General wage determinations. (b) (b) Project wage determinations. A project wage determination is issued at the specific request of a contracting agency. It is used only when no general wage determination applies, and is effective for 180 calendar days from the date of the determination. However, if a determination expires before contract award, it may be possible to obtain an extension to the 180-day life of the determination (see 22.404-5(b)(2)). Once incorporated in a contract, a project wage determination normally remains effective for the life of the contract, unless the contracting officer exercises an option to extend the term of the contract (see 22.404-12).
31.205-49 Goodwill. No subsections found.
27.304 Procedures. No subsections found.
22.800 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
25.302-2 Definitions. No subsections found.
45.601 [Reserved] No subsections found.
4.1802 Policy. (a) (a) Commercial and Government Entity code. (b) (b) Ownership or control of offeror. Offerors, if owned or controlled by another entity, shall provide the contracting officer with the CAGE code and legal name of that entity prior to the award of a contract action above the micro-purchase threshold, when there is a requirement to be registered in SAM or a requirement to have a unique entity identifier in the solicitation.
1.706 Expiration. No subsections found.
52.229-6 Taxes-Foreign Fixed-Price Contracts. (a) (a) To the extent that this contract provides for furnishing supplies or performing services outside the United States and its outlying areas, this clause applies in lieu of any Federal, State, and local taxes clause of the contract. (b) (b) Definitions. As used in this clause- (c) (c) (d) (d) (e) (e) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any after-relieved tax, including any interest or penalty. The Government of the United States shall be entitled to interest received by the Contractor incident to a refund of taxes to the extent that such interest was earned after the Contractor was paid by the Government of the United States for such taxes. The Government of the United States shall be entitled to repayment of any penalty refunded to the Contractor to the extent that the penalty was paid by the Government. (f) (f) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any tax or duty, other than an excepted tax, that was included in the contract and that the Contractor is required to pay or bear, or does not obtain a refund of, through the Contractor’s fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer or to comply with the provisions of paragraph (i) of this clause. (g) (g) No adjustment shall be made in the contract price under this clause unless the amount of the adjustment exceeds $250. (h) (h) If the Contractor obtains a reduction in tax liability under the United States Internal Revenue Code (Title26, U.S. Code) because of the payment of any tax or duty that either was included in the contract price or was the basis of an increase in the contract price, the amount of the reduction shall be paid or credited to the Government of the United States as the Contracting Officer directs. (i) (i) The Contractor shall take all reasonable action to obtain exemption from or refund of any taxes or duties, including interest or penalty, from which the United States Government, the Contractor, any subcontractor, or the transactions or property covered by this contract are exempt under the laws of the country concerned or its political subdivisions or which the governments of the United States and of the country concerned have agreed shall not be applicable to expenditures in such country by or on behalf of the United States. (j) (j) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of all matters relating to taxes or duties that reasonably may be expected to result in either an increase or decrease in the contract price and shall take appropriate action as the Contracting Officer directs. The contract price shall be equitably adjusted to cover the costs of action taken by the Contractor at the direction of the Contracting Officer, including any interest, penalty, and reasonable attorneys’ fees.
52.232-11 Extras. No subsections found.
47.303-3 F.o.b. origin, freight allowed. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. origin, freight allowed" means- (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor’s responsibilities are the same as those listed in 47.303-1(b). (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-31, F.o.b. Origin, Freight Allowed, when the delivery term is f.o.b. origin, freight allowed.
52.245-2 Government Property Installation Operation Services. (a) (a) This Government Property listed in paragraph (e) of this clause is furnished to the Contractor in an "as-is, where is" condition. The Government makes no warranty regarding the suitability for use of the Government property specified in this contract. The Contractor shall be afforded the opportunity to inspect the Government property as specified in the solicitation. (b) (b) The Government bears no responsibility for repair or replacement of any lost Government property. If any or all of the Government property is lost or becomes no longer usable, the Contractor shall be responsible for replacement of the property at Contractor expense. The Contractor shall have title to all replacement property and shall continue to be responsible for contract performance. (c) (c) Unless the Contracting Officer determines otherwise, the Government abandons all rights and title to unserviceable and scrap property resulting from contract performance. Upon notification to the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall remove such property from the Government premises and dispose of it at Contractor expense. (d) (d) Except as provided in this clause, Government property furnished under this contract shall be governed by the Government Property clause of this contract. (e) (e) Government property provided under this clause:
53.106 Special construction and printing. No subsections found.
5.201 General. (a) (a) As required by the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(e)) and the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 1708), agencies must make notices of proposed contract actions available as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. (b) (b) (c) (c) The primary purposes of the notice are to improve small business access to acquisition information and enhance competition by identifying contracting and subcontracting opportunities. (d) (d) The GPE may be accessed via the Internet at https://www.sam.gov.
49.109 Settlement agreements. No subsections found.
19.1504 Exclusions. (a) (a) Requirements that an 8(a) contractor is currently performing under the 8(a) program or that SBA has accepted for performance under the authority of the 8(a) program, unless SBA has consented to release the requirements from the 8(a) program; (b) (b) Requirements that can be satisfied through award to mandatory Government sources (see section 8.002); (c) (c) Orders under indefinite-delivery contracts (see subpart 16.5). (But see 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) for discretionary set-asides of orders); or (d) (d) Orders against Federal Supply Schedules (see subpart 8.4). (But see 8.405-5 for discretionary set-asides of orders.)
33.202 Disputes. (a) (a) The	payment of interest on contractor claims; (b) (b) Certification	of contractor claims; and (c) (c) A civil	penalty for contractor claims that are fraudulent or based on a	misrepresentation of fact.
14.408 Award. No subsections found.
52.247-22 Contractor Liability for Loss of and/or Damage to Freight other than Household Goods. No subsections found.
27.304-4 Appeals. (a) (a) The designated agency official shall provide the contractor with a written statement of the basis, including any relevant facts, for taking any of the following actions: (b) (b) Each agency may establish and publish procedures under which any of these actions may be appealed. These appeal procedures should include administrative due process procedures and standards for fact-finding. The resolution of any appeal shall consider both the factual and legal basis for the action and its consistency with the policy and objectives of 35 U.S.C. 200-206 and 2 10. (c) (c) To the extent that any of the actions described in paragraph (a) of this section are subject to appeal under the Contract Disputes statute, the procedures under that statute will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b).
32.1102 Definitions. No subsections found.
7.400 Scope of subpart. (a) (a)Implements section 555 of the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-254); (b) (b)Provides guidance when acquiring equipment and more than one method of acquisition is available for use; and (c) (c)Applies to both the initial acquisition of equipment and the renewal or extension of existing equipment leases or rental agreements.
16.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
53.240 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.109 Priorities and allocations. No subsections found.
47.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part prescribes policies and procedures for- (b) (b) The definitions in this part have been condensed from statutory definitions. In case of inconsistency between the language of this part and the statutory requirements, the statute shall prevail.
52.223 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.406-8 Investigations. (a) (a) Contracting agency responsibilities. Conduct an investigation when a compliance check indicates that substantial or willful violations may have occurred or violations have not been corrected. (b) (b) Investigation report. The contracting officer must review the investigation report on receipt and make preliminary findings. The contracting officer normally must not base adverse findings solely on employee statements that the employee does not wish to have disclosed. However, if the investigation establishes a pattern of possible violations that are based on employees’ statements that are not authorized for disclosure, the pattern itself may support a finding of noncompliance. (c) (c) Contractor Notification. After completing the review, the contracting officer must- (d) (d) Contracting officer’s report. After taking the actions prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection- (e) (e) Department of Labor investigations. The Department of Labor will furnish the contracting officer an enforcement report detailing violations found and any corrective action taken by the contractor, in investigations that disclose- (f) (f) Other investigations. The Department of Labor will provide a letter summarizing the findings of the investigation to the contracting officer for all investigations that are not described in paragraph (e) of this subsection.
32.503-9 Liquidation rates-alternate method. (a) (a) The liquidation rate	determined under 32.503-8 shall	apply throughout the period of contract performance unless the contracting	officer adjusts the liquidation rate under the alternate method in this 32.503-9. The objective of the alternate	liquidation rate method is to permit the contractor to retain the earned	profit element of the contract prices for completed items in the liquidation	process. The contracting officer may reduce the liquidation rate if- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall change the liquidation rate in the following circumstances: (c) (c) Whenever the liquidation rate is changed, the contracting officer shall issue a contract modification to specify the new rate in the Progress Payments clause.Adequate consideration for these contract modifications is provided by the consideration included in the initial contract.The parties shall promptly make the payment or liquidation required in the circumstances.
Subpart 33.2 - Disputes and Appeals No subsections found.
47.207-4 Determination of Weights. (a) (a) Shipments of freight other than household goods and office furniture. (b) (b) Shipments of household goods or office furniture. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-11, Net Weight—Household Goods or Office Furniture, when movements of Government employees' household goods or relocations of Government offices are involved.
4.606 Reporting Data. (a) (a) Actions required to be reported to FPDS. (b) (b) Reporting other actions. Agencies may submit actions other than those listed at paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if they are able to be segregated from FAR-based actions and this is approved in writing by the FPDS Program Office. Prior to the commencement of reporting, agencies must contact the FPDS Program Office if they desire to submit any of the following types of activity: (c) (c) Actions not reported. The following types of contract actions are not to be reported to FPDS: (d) (d) Agencies not subject to the FAR. Agencies not subject to the FAR may be required by other authority (e.g., statute, OMB, or internal agency policy) to report certain information to FPDS. Those agencies not subject to the FAR must first receive approval from the FPDS Program Office prior to reporting to FPDS.
14.408-2 Responsible bidder-reasonableness of price. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall determine that a prospective contractor is responsible (see subpart  9.1) and that the prices offered are reasonable before awarding the contract. The price analysis techniques in 15.404-1(b) may be used as guidelines. In each case the determination shall be made in the light of all prevailing circumstances. Particular care must be taken in cases where only a single bid is received. (b) (b) The price analysis shall consider whether bids are materially unbalanced (see 15.404-1(g)).
49.108-1 Subcontractor’s rights. No subsections found.
15.206 Amending the solicitation. (a) (a) When, either before or after receipt of proposals, the Government changes its requirements or terms and conditions, the contracting officer shall amend the solicitation. (b) (b) Amendments issued before the established time and date for receipt of proposals shall be issued to all parties receiving the solicitation. (c) (c) Amendments issued after the established time and date for receipt of proposals shall be issued to all offerors that have not been eliminated from the competition. (d) (d) If a proposal of interest to the Government involves a departure from the stated requirements, the contracting officer shall amend the solicitation, provided this can be done without revealing to the other offerors the alternate solution proposed or any other information that is entitled to protection (see 15.207(b) and 15.306(e)). (e) (e) If, in the judgment of the contracting officer, based on market research or otherwise, an amendment proposed for issuance after offers have been received is so substantial as to exceed what prospective offerors reasonably could have anticipated, so that additional sources likely would have submitted offers had the substance of the amendment been known to them, the contracting officer shall cancel the original solicitation and issue a new one, regardless of the stage of the acquisition. (f) (f) Oral notices may be used when time is of the essence. The contracting officer shall document the contract file and formalize the notice with an amendment (see subpart  4.5, Electronic Commerce in Contracting). (g) (g) At a minimum, the following information should be included in each amendment:
52.223-2 Reporting of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) The Contractor shall report to https://www.sam.gov, with a copy to the Contracting Officer, on the product types and dollar value of any biobased products in USDA-designated product categories purchased by the Contractor during the previous Government fiscal year, between October 1 and September 30; and (c) (c) Submit this report no later than—
Subpart 8.4 - Federal Supply Schedules No subsections found.
Subpart 11.6 - Priorities and Allocations No subsections found.
11.701 Supply contracts. (a) (a) A fixed-price supply contract may authorize Government acceptance of a variation in the quantity of items called for if the variation is caused by conditions of loading, shipping, or packing, or by allowances in manufacturing processes. Any permissible variation shall be stated as a percentage and it may be an increase, a decrease, or a combination of both; however, contracts for subsistence items may use other applicable terms of variation in quantity. (b) (b) There should be no standard or usual variation percentage. The overrun or underrun permitted in each contract should be based upon the normal commercial practices of a particular industry for a particular item, and the permitted percentage should be no larger than is necessary to afford a contractor reasonable protection. The permissible variation shall not exceed plus or minus 10 percent unless a different limitation is established in agency regulations. Consideration shall be given to the quantity to which the percentage variation applies. For example, when delivery will be made to multiple destinations and it is desired that the quantity variation apply to the item quantity for each destination, this requirement must be stated in the contract. (c) (c) Contractors are responsible for delivery of the specified quantity of items in a fixed-price contract, within allowable variations, if any. If a contractor delivers a quantity of items in excess of the contract requirements plus any allowable variation in quantity, particularly small dollar value overshipments, it results in unnecessary administrative costs to the Government in determining disposition of the excess quantity. Accordingly, the contract may include the clause at 52.211-17, Delivery of Excess Quantities, to provide that-
4.2100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
19.707 The Small Business Administration’s role in carrying out the program. (a) (a) Under the program, the SBA may- (b) (b) The SBA is not authorized to-
52.228-15 Performance and Payment	Bonds-Construction. (a) (a) Definitions.	As used in this clause- (b) (b) Amount of required bonds.	Unless the resulting contract price is valued at or below the threshold	specified in Federal Acquisition Regulation 28.102-1(a)	on the date of award of this contract, the successful offeror shall	furnish performance and payment bonds to the Contracting Officer	as follows: (c) (c) Furnishing	executed bonds. The Contractor shall furnish all executed bonds,	including any necessary reinsurance agreements, to the Contracting	Officer, within the time period specified in the Bid Guarantee provision	of the solicitation, or otherwise specified by the Contracting Officer,	but in any event, before starting work. (d) (d) Surety	or other security for bonds. The bonds shall be in the form	of firm commitment, supported by corporate sureties whose names	appear on the list contained in Treasury Department Circular 570,	individual sureties, or by other acceptable security such as postal	money order, certified check, cashier's check, irrevocable letter	of credit, or, in accordance with Treasury Department regulations,	certain bonds or notes of the United States. Treasury Circular 570	is published in the Federal Register or may be obtained from	the: (e) (e) Notice	of subcontractor waiver of protection (40 U.S.C. 3133(c)).	Any waiver of the right to sue on the payment bond is void unless	it is in writing, signed by the person whose right is waived, and	executed after such person has first furnished labor or material	for use in the performance of the contract.
36.302 Scope of work. No subsections found.
44.305-1 Responsibilities. (a) (a) Approve a purchasing system only after determining that the contractor’s purchasing policies and practices are efficient and provide adequate protection of the Government’s interests; and (b) (b) Promptly notify the contractor in writing of the granting, withholding, or withdrawal of approval.
24.102 General. (a) (a) The Act requires that when an agency contracts for the design, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals on behalf of the agency to accomplish an agency function the agency must apply the requirements of the Act to the contractor and its employees working on the contract. (b) (b) An agency officer or employee may be criminally liable for violations of the Act. When the contract provides for operation of a system of records on individuals, contractors and their employees are considered employees of the agency for purposes of the criminal penalties of the Act. (c) (c) If a contract specifically provides for the design, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals on behalf of an agency to accomplish an agency function, the agency must apply the requirements of the Act to the contractor and its employees working on the contract. The system of records operated under the contract is deemed to be maintained by the agency and is subject to the Act. (d) (d) Agencies, which within the limits of their authorities, fail to require that systems of records on individuals operated on their behalf under contracts be operated in conformance with the Act may be civilly liable to individuals injured as a consequence of any subsequent failure to maintain records in conformance with the Act.
52.214-10 Contract Award-Sealed Bidding. (a) (a) The Government will evaluate bids in response to this solicitation without discussions and will award a contract to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the solicitation, will be most advantageous to the Government considering only price and the price-related factors specified elsewhere in the solicitation. (b) (b) The Government may- (c) (c) The Government may accept any item or group of items of a bid, unless the bidder qualifies the bid by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, bids may be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the bidder specifies otherwise in the bid. (d) (d) A written award or acceptance of a bid mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful bidder within the time for acceptance specified in the bid shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. (e) (e) The Government may reject a bid as nonresponsive if the prices bid are materially unbalanced between line items or subline items. A bid is materially unbalanced when it is based on prices significantly less than cost for some work and prices which are significantly overstated in relation to cost for other work, and if there is a reasonable doubt that the bid will result in the lowest overall cost to the Government even though it may be the low evaluated bid, or if it is so unbalanced as to be tantamount to allowing an advance payment.
46.407 Nonconforming supplies	or services. (a) (a) The contracting officer should	reject supplies or services not conforming in all respects to contract	requirements (see 46.102).	In those instances where deviation from this policy is found to	be in the Government’s interest, such supplies or services may be	accepted only as authorized in this section. (b) (b) The contracting	officer ordinarily must give the contractor an opportunity to correct	or replace nonconforming supplies or services when this can be accomplished	within the required delivery schedule. Unless the contract specifies	otherwise (as may be the case in some cost-reimbursement contracts),	correction or replacement must be without additional cost to the	Government. Paragraph (e)(2) of the clause at 52.246-2, Inspection of	Supplies-Fixed-Price, reserves to the Government the right to charge	the contractor the cost of Government reinspection and retests because	of prior rejection. (c) (c) (d) (d) If the	nonconformance is minor, the cognizant contract administration office	may make the determination to accept or reject, except where this	authority is withheld by the contracting office of the contracting	activity. To assist in making this determination, the contract administration	office may establish a joint contractor-contract administrative	office review group. Acceptance of supplies and services with critical	or major nonconformances is outside the scope of the review group. (e) (e) The contracting	officer must discourage the repeated tender of nonconforming supplies	or services, including those with only minor nonconformances, by	appropriate action, such as rejection and documenting the contractor’s	performance record. (f) (f) When supplies	or services are accepted with critical or major nonconformances	as authorized in paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting	officer must modify the contract to provide for an equitable price	reduction or other consideration. In the case of conditional acceptance,	amounts withheld from payments generally should be at least sufficient	to cover the estimated cost and related profit to correct deficiencies	and complete unfinished work. The contracting officer must document	in the contract file the basis for the amounts withheld. For services,	the contracting officer can consider identifying the value of the	individual work requirements or tasks (subdivisions) that may be	subject to price or fee reduction. This value may be used to determine	an equitable adjustment for nonconforming services. However, when	supplies or services involving minor nonconformances are accepted,	the contract need not be modified unless it appears that the savings to	the contractor in fabricating the nonconforming supplies or performing	the nonconforming services will exceed the cost to the Government	of processing the modification. (g) (g) Notices	of rejection must include the reasons for rejection and be furnished	promptly to the contractor. Promptness in giving this notice is	essential because, if timely nature of rejection is not furnished,	acceptance may in certain cases be implied as a matter of law. The	notice must be in writing if- (h) (h) The contracting	officer shall provide disposition instructions for counterfeit or	suspect counterfeit items in accordance with agency policy. Agency	policy may require the contracting officer to direct the contractor	to retain such items for investigative or evidentiary purposes.
52.216-20 Definite Quantity. (a) (a) This is a definite-quantity, indefinite-delivery contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. (b) (b) The Government shall order the quantity of supplies or services specified in the Schedule, and the Contractor shall furnish them when ordered. Delivery or performance shall be at locations designated in orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause and the Schedule. (c) (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that time shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor’s and Government’s rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after ________________ [insert date].
1.201-1 The two councils. (a) (a) Subject to the authorities discussed in 1.103, revisions to the FAR will be prepared and issued through the coordinated action of two councils, the Defense Acquisition Regulations Council (DAR Council) and the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council (CAA Council). Members of these councils shall- (b) (b) The chairperson of the CAA Council shall be the representative of the Administrator of General Services. The other members of this council shall be one each representative from the- (c) (c) The Director of the DAR Council shall be the representative of the Secretary of Defense. The operation of the DAR Council will be as prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. Membership shall include representatives of the military departments, the Defense Logistics Agency, and the Defense Contract Management Agency. (d) (d) Responsibility for processing revisions to the FAR is apportioned by the two councils so that each council has cognizance over specified parts or subparts. (e) (e) Each council shall be responsible for-
19.815 Release and notification requirements for non-8(a) procurement. (a) (a) Once a requirement has been accepted by SBA into the 8(a) program, any follow-on requirements (see definition at 13 CFR 124.3) shall remain in the 8(a) program unless— (b) (b) To obtain release of a requirement for a follow-on, non-8(a) procurement, (other than a mandatory source listed at 8.002 or 8.003), the contracting officer shall make a written request to, and receive concurrence from, the SBA Associate Administrator for Business Development. (c) (c) (d) (d) (e) (e) (f) (f)
32.605 Final decisions. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if- (b) (b) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall-
25.604 Preaward determination concerning the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute. (a) (a) For any acquisition, an offeror may request from the contracting officer a determination concerning the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute for specifically identified construction materials. The time for submitting the request is specified in the solicitation in paragraph (b) of either 52.225-22 or 52.225-24, whichever applies. The information and supporting data that must be included in the request are also specified in the solicitation in paragraphs (c) and (d) of either 52.225-21 or 52.225-23, whichever applies. (b) (b) Before award, the contracting officer must evaluate all requests based on the information provided and may supplement this information with other readily available information. (c) (c) Determination based on unreasonable cost of domestic construction material.
52.222-35 Equal Opportunity	for Veterans. (a) (a) Definitions.	As used in this clause- (b) (b) Equal opportunity	clause. The Contractor shall abide by the requirements of the equal	opportunity clause at 41 CFR 60-300.5(a),	as of March 24, 2014. This clause prohibits discrimination against	qualified protected veterans, and requires affirmative action by	the Contractor to employ and advance in employment qualified protected	veterans. (c) (c) Subcontracts.	The Contractor shall insert the terms of this clause in subcontracts valued at or above the threshold	specified in FAR 22.1303(a) on the date	of subcontract award, unless exempted by rules, regulations,	or orders of the Secretary of Labor. The Contractor shall act as	specified by the Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance	Programs, to enforce the terms, including action for noncompliance.	Such necessary changes in language may be made as shall be appropriate to	identify properly the parties and their undertakings.
52.246-15 Certificate of Conformance. (a) (a) When authorized in writing by the cognizant Contract Administration Office (CAO), the Contractor shall ship with a Certificate of Conformance any supplies for which the contract would otherwise require inspection at source. In no case shall the Government’s right to inspect supplies under the inspection provisions of this contract be prejudiced. Shipments of such supplies will not be made under this contract until use of the Certificate of Conformance has been authorized in writing by the CAO, or inspection and acceptance have occurred. (b) (b) The Contractor’s signed certificate shall be attached to or included on the top copy of the inspection or receiving report distributed to the payment office or attached to the CAO copy when contract administration (Block10 of the DDForm250) is performed by the Defense Contract Administration Services. In addition, a copy of the signed certificate shall also be attached to or entered on copies of the inspection or receiving report accompanying the shipment. (c) (c) The Government has the right to reject defective supplies or services within a reasonable time after delivery by written notification to the Contractor. The Contractor shall in such event promptly replace, correct, or repair the rejected supplies or services at the Contractor’s expense. (d) (d) The certificate shall read as follows:
Part 40 - Information Security and Supply Chain Security No subsections found.
47.301 General. (a) (a) Transportation and traffic management factors are important in awarding and administering contracts to ensure that (1) acquisitions are made on the basis most advantageous to the Government and (2) supplies arrive in good order and condition and on time at the required place. (See 47.104 for possible reduced transportation rates for Government shipments.) (b) (b) The requiring activity shall-
22.1803 Contract clause. (a) (a) Are only for work that will be performed outside the United States; (b) (b) Are for a period of performance of less than 120 days; or (c) (c) Are only for-
33.103 Protests to the agency. (a) (a) Reference. Executive Order 12979, Agency Procurement Protests, establishes policy on agency procurement protests. (b) (b) Prior to submission of an agency protest, all parties shall use their best efforts to resolve concerns raised by an interested party at the contracting officer level through open and frank discussions. (c) (c) The agency should provide for inexpensive, informal, procedurally simple, and expeditious resolution of protests. Where appropriate, the use of alternative dispute resolution techniques, third party neutrals, and another agency’s personnel are acceptable protest resolution methods. (d) (d) The following procedures are established to resolve agency protests effectively, to build confidence in the Government’s acquisition system, and to reduce protests outside of the agency: (e) (e) Protests based on alleged apparent improprieties in a solicitation shall be filed before bid opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals. In all other cases, protests shall be filed no later than 10 days after the basis of protest is known or should have been known, whichever is earlier. The agency, for good cause shown, or where it determines that a protest raises issues significant to the agency’s acquisition system, may consider the merits of any protest which is not timely filed. (f) (f) Action upon receipt of protest. (g) (g) Agencies shall make their best efforts to resolve agency protests within 35 days after the protest is filed. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, the parties may exchange relevant information. (h) (h) Agency protest decisions shall be well-reasoned, and explain the agency position. The protest decision shall be provided to the protester using a method that provides evidence of receipt.
49.208 Equitable adjustment	after partial termination. (a) (a) When	the contracting officer retains responsibility for negotiating the	equitable adjustment and executing a supplemental agreement, the	contracting officer shall ensure that no portion of an increase	in price is included in a termination settlement made or in process. (b) (b) The TCO	shall also ensure that no portion of the costs included in the equitable	adjustment are included in the termination settlement.
29.305 State and local tax exemptions. (a) (a) Evidence of exemption. Evidence needed to establish exemption from State or local taxes depends on the grounds for the exemption claimed, the parties to the transaction, and the requirements of the taxing jurisdiction. Such evidence may include the following: (b) (b) Furnishing proof of exemption. If a reasonable basis to sustain a claimed exemption exists, the seller will be furnished evidence of exemption, as follows:
52.227-18 Rights in Data-Existing Works. (a) (a) Except as otherwise provided in this contract, the Contractor grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government, for all the material or subject matter called for under this contract, or for which this clause is specifically made applicable. (b) (b) The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, and employees acting for the Government against any liability, including costs and expenses, incurred as the result of (1) the violation of trade secrets, copyrights, or right of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery, publication or use of any data furnished under this contract; or (2) any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply unless the Government provides notice to the Contractor as soon as practicable of any claim or suit, affords the Contractor an opportunity under applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in the defense of the claim or suit, and obtains the Contractor’s consent to the settlement of any claim or suit other than as required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and do not apply to material furnished to the Contractor by the Government and incorporated in data to which this clause applies.
14.202-1 Bidding time. (a) (a) Policy. A reasonable time for prospective bidders to prepare and submit bids shall be allowed in all invitations, consistent with the needs of the Government. (For construction contracts, see 36.213-3(a).) A bidding time (i.e., the time between issuance of the solicitation and opening of bids) of at least 30 calendar days shall be provided, when synopsis is required by subpart  5.2. (b) (b) Factors to be considered. Because of unduly limited bidding time, some potential sources may be precluded from bidding and others may be forced to include amounts for contingencies that, with additional time, could be eliminated. To avoid unduly restricting competition or paying higher-than-necessary prices, consideration shall be given to such factors as the following in establishing a reasonable bidding time:
52.247-58 Loading, Blocking, and Bracing of Freight Car Shipments. (a) (a) Upon receipt of shipping instructions, as provided in this contract, the supplies to be included in any carload shipment by rail shall be loaded, blocked, and braced by the Contractor in accordance with the standards published by the Association of American Railroads and effective at the time of shipment. (b) (b) Shipments, for which the Association of American Railroads has published no such standards, shall be loaded, blocked, and braced in accordance with standards established by the shipper as evidenced by written acceptance of an authorized representative of the carrier. (c) (c) The Contractor shall be liable for payment of any damage to any supplies caused by the failure to load, block, and brace in accordance with acceptable standards set forth herein. (d) (d) A copy of the appropriate pamphlet of the Association of American Railroads may be obtained from that Association.
16.301 General. No subsections found.
Subpart 3.8 - Limitations on the Payment of Funds to Influence Federal Transactions No subsections found.
31.702 General. No subsections found.
23.502 Solicitation provision. No subsections found.
Subpart 1.1 - Purpose, Authority, Issuance No subsections found.
3.104-9 Contract clauses. (a) (a) 52.203-8, Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity; and (b) (b) 52.203-10, Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity.
52.246-3 Inspection of Supplies-Cost-Reimbursement. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the supplies, fabricating methods, and special tooling under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test the contract supplies, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of manufacture, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect the plant or plants of the Contractor or any subcontractor engaged in the contract performance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) (d) If the Government performs inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. (e) (e) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Government shall accept supplies as promptly as practicable after delivery, and supplies shall be deemed accepted 60 days after delivery, unless accepted earlier. (f) (f) At any time during contract performance, but no later than 6 months (or such other time as may be specified in the contract) after acceptance of the supplies to be delivered under the contract, the Government may require the Contractor to replace or correct any supplies that are nonconforming at time of delivery. Supplies are nonconforming when they are defective in material or workmanship or are otherwise not in conformity with contract requirements. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h) of this clause, the cost of replacement or correction shall be included in allowable cost, determined as provided in the Allowable Cost and Payment clause, but no additional fee shall be paid. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance supplies required to be replaced or corrected without disclosing the former requirement for replacement or correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken. (g) (g) (h) (h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this clause, the Government may at any time require the Contractor to correct or replace, without cost to the Government, nonconforming supplies, if the nonconformances are due to- (i) (i) This clause applies in the same manner to corrected or replacement supplies as to supplies originally delivered. (j) (j) The Contractor shall have no obligation or liability under this contract to replace supplies that were nonconforming at the time of delivery, except as provided in this clause or as may be otherwise provided in the contract. (k) (k) Except as otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor’s obligation to correct or replace Government-furnished property shall be governed by the clause pertaining to Government property.
53.207 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
32.502-1 Use of customary progress payments. No subsections found.
52.225-15 [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.204-1 United States bonds or notes. (a) (a) Turn securities over to the finance or other authorized agency official; or (b) (b) Deposit them with the Treasurer of the United States, a Federal Reserve Bank (or branch with requisite facilities), or other depository designated for that purpose by the Secretary of the Treasury, under procedures prescribed by the agency concerned and Treasury Department CircularNo.154 (exception: The contracting officer shall deposit all bonds and notes received in the District of Columbia with the Treasurer of the United States).
Subpart 47.1 - General No subsections found.
52.219-1 Small Business Program Representations. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision- (b) (b) (c) (c) Representations. (d) (d) Notice. Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm’s status as a business concern that is small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, service-disabled veteran-owned small, economically disadvantaged women-owned small, or women-owned small eligible under the WOSB Program in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8, 9, 15, 31, and 36 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall-
9.401 Applicability. No subsections found.
31.205-33 Professional and consultant service costs. (a) (a) Definition. "Professional and consultant services," as used in this subsection, means those services rendered by persons who are members of a particular profession or possess a special skill and who are not officers or employees of the contractor. Examples include those services acquired by contractors or subcontractors in order to enhance their legal, economic, financial, or technical positions. Professional and consultant services are generally acquired to obtain information, advice, opinions, alternatives, conclusions, recommendations, training, or direct assistance, such as studies, analyses, evaluations, liaison with Government officials, or other forms of representation. (b) (b) Costs of professional and consultant services are allowable subject to this paragraph and paragraphs (c) through (f) of this subsection when reasonable in relation to the services rendered and when not contingent upon recovery of the costs from the Government (but see 31.205-30 and 31.205-47). (c) (c) Costs of professional and consultant services performed under any of the following circumstances are unallowable: (d) (d) In determining the allowability of costs (including retainer fees) in a particular case, no single factor or any special combination of factors is necessarily determinative. However, the contracting officer shall consider the following factors, among others: (e) (e) Retainer fees, to be allowable, must be supported by evidence that- (f) (f) Fees for services rendered are allowable only when supported by evidence of the nature and scope of the service furnished (see also 31.205-38(c)). However, retainer agreements generally are not based on specific statements of work. Evidence necessary to determine that work performed is proper and does not violate law or regulation shall include-
52.219-10 Incentive Subcontracting Program. (a) (a) Of the total dollars it plans to spend under subcontracts, the Contractor has committed itself in its subcontracting plan to try to award certain percentages to small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns, respectively. (b) (b) If the Contractor exceeds its subcontracting goals for small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns in performing this contract, it will receive ______ [Contracting Officer to insert the appropriate number between 0 and 10] percent of the dollars in excess of each goal in the plan, unless the Contracting Officer determines that the excess was not due to the Contractor’s efforts (e.g.,a subcontractor cost overrun caused the actual subcontract amount to exceed that estimated in the subcontracting plan, or the award of subcontracts that had been planned but had not been disclosed in the subcontracting plan during contract negotiations). Determinations made under this paragraph are unilateral decisions made solely at the discretion of the Government. (c) (c) If this is a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract, the sum of the fixed fee and the incentive fee earned under this contract may not exceed the limitations in 15.404-4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
52.208-3 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.001 Definition. (a) (a) In support of a contingency operation as defined in 2.101; (b) (b) To facilitate the defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack against the United States; (c) (c)  In support of a request from the Secretary of State or the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development to facilitate the provision of international disaster assistance; or (d) (d) When the President issues an emergency declaration, or a major disaster declaration.
36.515 Schedules for construction contracts. No subsections found.
25.301-3 Weapons. No subsections found.
52.247-65 F.o.b. Origin, Prepaid Freight-Small Package Shipments. (a) (a) When authorized by the Contracting Officer, f.o.b. origin freight shipments which do not have a security classification shall move on prepaid commercial bills of lading or other shipping documents to domestic destinations, including air and water terminals. Weight of individual shipments shall be governed by carrier restrictions but shall not exceed 150 pounds by any form of commercial air or 1,000 pounds by other commercial carriers. The Government will reimburse the Contractor for reasonable freight charges. (b) (b) The Contractor shall annotate the commercial bill of lading as required by the clause of this contract entitled "Commercial Bill of Lading Notations." (c) (c) The Contractor shall consolidate prepaid shipments in accordance with procedures established by the cognizant transportation office. The Contractor is authorized to combine Government prepaid shipments with the Contractor’s commercial shipments for delivery to one or more consignees and the Government will reimburse its pro rata share of the total freight costs. The Contractor shall provide a copy of the commercial bill of lading promptly to each consignee. Quantities shall not be divided into mailable lots for the purpose of avoiding movement by other modes of transportation. (d) (d) Transportation charges will be billed as a separate item on the invoice for each shipment made. A copy of the pertinent bill of lading, shipment receipt, or freight bill shall accompany the invoice unless otherwise specified in the contract. (e) (e) Loss and damage claims will be processed by the Government.
23.405 Waste reduction program. No subsections found.
23.107-3 Energy-consuming products and water-consuming products. (a) (a) Authorities. (b) (b) Programs — (c) (c) Procedures. To the maximum extent practicable in accordance with 23.104(a), unless a justification, exception, or exemption applies (see 23.104(a), 23.105, and 23.106, respectively)— (d) (d) Resources.
Subpart 19.4 - Cooperation with the Small Business Administration No subsections found.
41.100 Scope of part. No subsections found.
42.709-2 General. (a) (a) The following penalties apply to contracts covered by this section: (b) (b) These penalties are in addition to other administrative, civil, and criminal penalties provided by law. (c) (c) It is not necessary for unallowable costs to have been paid to the contractor in order to assess a penalty.
52.247-4 Inspection of Shipping and Receiving Facilities. (a) (a) Offerors are urged to inspect the shipping and receiving facilities where services are to be performed and to satisfy themselves regarding all general and local conditions that may affect the cost of contract performance. (b) (b) Site visits have been scheduled as follows: (c) (c) For further information offerors may contact:
53.300 Listing of Standard, Optional, and Agency forms. (a) (a) You can access the forms in Table 53-1 at the GSA Forms Library at https://www.gsa.gov/forms. (b) (b) You can access the forms in Table 53-2 at the websites listed in the table.
32.503-12 Maximum unliquidated amount. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall ensure that any excess of the unliquidated progress payments over the contractual limitation in paragraph (a) of the Progress Payments clause in the contract is promptly corrected through one or more of the following actions: (b) (b) The excess described in paragraph (a) of this section is most likely to arise under the following circumstances: (c) (c) As required, the services of the responsible audit agency or office should be fully utilized, along with the services of qualified cost analysis and engineering personnel.
49.106 Fraud or other criminal conduct. No subsections found.
8.406-4 Termination for cause. (a) (a) (b) (b) If the contractor asserts that the failure was excusable, the ordering activity contracting officer shall follow the procedures at 8.406-6, as appropriate. (c) (c) If the contractor is charged excess costs, the following apply: (d) (d) Only the schedule contracting officer may modify the contract to terminate for cause any, or all, supplies or services covered by the schedule contract. If the schedule contracting officer has terminated any supplies or services covered by the schedule contract, no further orders may be placed for those items. Orders placed prior to termination for cause shall be fulfilled by the contractor, unless terminated for the convenience of the Government by the ordering activity contracting officer. (e) (e) Reporting. An ordering activity contracting officer, in accordance with agency procedures, shall ensure that information related to termination for cause notices and any amendments are reported. In the event the termination for cause is subsequently converted to a termination for convenience, or is otherwise withdrawn, the contracting officer shall ensure that a notice of the conversion or withdrawal is reported. All reporting shall be in accordance with 42.1503(h).
14.407 Mistakes in bids. No subsections found.
28.313 Contract clauses for insurance of transportation or transportation-related services. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.228-9, Cargo Insurance, in solicitations and contracts for transportation or for transportation-related services, except when freight is shipped under rates subject to released or declared value. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert a clause substantially the same as that at 52.228-10, Vehicular and General Public Liability Insurance, in solicitations and contracts for transportation or for transportation-related services when the contracting officer determines that vehicular liability or general public liability insurance required by law is not sufficient.
32.503-6 Suspension or reduction of payments. (a) (a) General. The Progress Payments clause provides a Government right to reduce or suspend progress payments, or to increase the liquidation rate, under specified conditions. These conditions and actions are discussed in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this subsection. (b) (b) Contractor noncompliance. (c) (c) Unsatisfactory financial condition. (d) (d) Excessive inventory. If the inventory allocated to the contract exceeds reasonable requirements (including a reasonable accumulation of inventory for continuity of operations), the contracting officer should, in addition to requiring the transfer of excessive inventory from the contract, take one or more of the following actions, as necessary, to avoid or correct overpayment: (e) (e) Delinquency in payment of costs of performance. (f) (f) Fair value of undelivered work. Progress payments must be commensurate with the fair value of work accomplished in accordance with contract requirements. The contracting officer must adjust progress payments when necessary to ensure that the fair value of undelivered work equals or exceeds the amount of unliquidated progress payments. On loss contracts, the application of a loss ratio as provided at paragraph (g) of this subsection constitutes this adjustment. (g) (g) Loss contracts.
52.222-40 Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act. (a) (a) During the term of this contract, the Contractor shall post an employee notice, of such size and in such form, and containing such content as prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, in conspicuous places in and about its plants and offices where employees covered by the National Labor Relations Act engage in activities relating to the performance of the contract, including all places where notices to employees are customarily posted both physically and electronically, in the languages employees speak, in accordance with 29 CFR471.2 (d) and (f). (b) (b) This required employee notice, printed by the Department of Labor, may be- (c) (c) The required text of the employee notice referred to in this clause is located at Appendix A, Subpart A, 29 CFR Part 471. (d) (d) The Contractor shall comply with all provisions of the employee notice and related rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor. (e) (e) In the event that the Contractor does not comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this clause, this contract may be terminated or suspended in whole or in part, and the Contractor may be suspended or debarred in accordance with 29 CFR 471.14 and subpart 9.4. Such other sanctions or remedies may be imposed as are provided by 29 CFR part 471, which implements Executive Order 13496 or as otherwise provided by law. (f) (f) Subcontracts.
22.406-7 Compliance checking. (a) (a) General. The contracting officer shall make checks and investigations on all contracts covered by this subpart as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the labor standards requirements of the contract. (b) (b) Regular compliance checks. Regular compliance checking includes the following activities: (c) (c) Special compliance checks. Situations that may require special compliance checks include -
27.102 General guidance. (a) (a) The Government encourages the maximum practical commercial use of inventions made under Government contracts. (b) (b) Generally, the Government will not refuse to award a contract on the grounds that the prospective contractor may infringe a patent. The Government may authorize and consent to the use of inventions in the performance of certain contracts, even though the inventions may be covered by U.S. patents. (c) (c) Generally, contractors providing commercial products and commercial services should indemnify the Government against liability for the infringement of U.S. patents. (d) (d) The Government recognizes rights in data developed at private expense, and limits its demands for delivery of that data. When such data is delivered, the Government will acquire only those rights essential to its needs. (e) (e) Generally, the Government requires that contractors obtain permission from copyright owners before including copyrighted works, owned by others, in data to be delivered to the Government.
46.317 Reporting Nonconforming Items. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.246-26, Reporting Nonconforming Items, in solicitations and contracts - as follows: (b) (b) The contracting officer shall not insert the clause at 52.246-26, Reporting Nonconforming Items, in solicitations and contracts when acquiring— (c) (c) If required by agency policy, the contracting officer may modify paragraph (b)(4) of the clause at 52.246-26, but only to change the responsibility for the contractor to submit reports to the agency rather than to Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP), so that the agency instead of the contractor submits reports to GIDEP within the mandatory 60 days.
Subpart 46.6 - Material Inspection and Receiving Reports No subsections found.
9.506 Procedures. (a) (a) If information concerning prospective contractors is necessary to identify and evaluate potential organizational conflicts of interest or to develop recommended actions, contracting officers first should seek the information from within the Government or from other readily available sources. Government sources include the files and the knowledge of personnel within the contracting office, other contracting offices, the cognizant contract administration and audit activities and offices concerned with contract financing. Non-Government sources include publications and commercial services, such as credit rating services, trade and financial journals, and business directories and registers. (b) (b) If the contracting officer decides that a particular acquisition involves a significant potential organizational conflict of interest, the contracting officer shall, before issuing the solicitation, submit for approval to the chief of the contracting office (unless a higher level official is designated by the agency)- (c) (c) The approving official shall- (d) (d) The contracting officer shall- (e) (e) If, during the effective period of any restriction (see 9.507), a contracting office transfers acquisition responsibility for the item or system involved, it shall notify the successor contracting office of the restriction, and send a copy of the contract under which the restriction was imposed.
18.106 Acquisitions from Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (FPI). No subsections found.
52.209-4 First Article Approval-Government Testing. (a) (a) The Contractor shall deliver ___ unit(s) of Lot/Item ___ within ____ calendar days from the date of this contract to the Government at ______ [insert name and address of the testing facility] for first article tests. The shipping documentation shall contain this contract number and the Lot/Item identification. The characteristics that the first article must meet and the testing requirements are specified elsewhere in this contract. (b) (b) Within _____ calendar days after the Government receives the first article, the Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor, in writing, of the conditional approval, approval, or disapproval of the first article. The notice of conditional approval or approval shall not relieve the Contractor from complying with all requirements of the specifications and all other terms and conditions of this contract. A notice of conditional approval shall state any further action required of the Contractor. A notice of disapproval shall cite reasons for the disapproval. (c) (c) If the first article is disapproved, the Contractor, upon Government request, shall submit an additional first article for testing. After each request, the Contractor shall make any necessary changes, modifications, or repairs to the first article or select another first article for testing. All costs related to these tests are to be borne by the Contractor, including any and all costs for additional tests following a disapproval. The Contractor shall furnish any additional first article to the Government under the terms and conditions and within the time specified by the Government. The Government shall act on this first article within the time limit specified in paragraph (b) of this clause. The Government reserves the right to require an equitable adjustment of the contract price for any extension of the delivery schedule or for any additional costs to the Government related to these tests. (d) (d) If the Contractor fails to deliver any first article on time, or the Contracting Officer disapproves any first article, the Contractor shall be deemed to have failed to make delivery within the meaning of the Default clause of this contract. (e) (e) Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the Contractor- (f) (f) If the Government does not act within the time specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall, upon timely written request from the Contractor, equitably adjust under the Changes clause of this contract the delivery or performance dates and/or the contract price, and any other contractual term affected by the delay. (g) (g) The Contractor is responsible for providing operating and maintenance instructions, spare parts support, and repair of the first article during any first article test. (h) (h) Before first article approval, the acquisition of materials or components for, or the commencement of production of, the balance of the contract quantity is at the sole risk of the Contractor. Before first article approval, the costs thereof shall not be allocable to this contract for (1) progress payments, or (2) termination settlements if the contract is terminated for the convenience of the Government. (i) (i) The Government may waive the requirement for first article approval test where supplies identical or similar to those called for in the schedule have been previously furnished by the Offeror/Contractor and have been accepted by the Government. The Offeror/Contractor may request a waiver.
52.232-23 Assignment of Claims. (a) (a) The Contractor, under the Assignment of Claims Act, as amended, 31 U.S.C.3727, 41 U.S.C.6305 (hereafter referred to as "the Act"), may assign its rights to be paid amounts due or to become due as a result of the performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency. The assignee under such an assignment may thereafter further assign or reassign its right under the original assignment to any type of financing institution described in the preceding sentence. (b) (b) Any assignment or reassignment authorized under the Act and this clause shall cover all unpaid amounts payable under this contract, and shall not be made to more than one party, except that an assignment or reassignment may be made to one party as agent or trustee for two or more parties participating in the financing of this contract. (c) (c) The Contractor shall not furnish or disclose to any assignee under this contract any classified document (including this contract) or information related to work under this contract until the Contracting Officer authorizes such action in writing.
Part 35 - Research and Development Contracting No subsections found.
25.703 Prohibition on contracting with entities that engage in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. No subsections found.
37.503 Agency-head responsibilities. (a) (a) Requirements for services are clearly defined and appropriate performance standards are developed so that the agency’s requirements can be understood by potential offerors and that performance in accordance with contract terms and conditions will meet the agency’s requirements; (b) (b) Service contracts are awarded and administered in a manner that will provide the customer its supplies and services within budget and in a timely manner; (c) (c) Specific procedures are in place before contracting for services to ensure that inherently governmental functions are performed by Government personnel; and (d) (d) Strategies are developed and necessary staff training is initiated to ensure effective implementation of the policies in 37.102.
52.247-10 Net Weight-General Freight. (a) (a) The net weight of the shipment shall be determined by deducting the tare weight of the vehicle (determined by having the empty vehicle with a full tank of fuel weighed by a certified weighmaster on a certified scale) from the gross weight of the vehicle (determined by having the loaded vehicle with a full tank of fuel weighed by a certified weighmaster on a certified scale). (b) (b) The Contractor shall attach the original copies of the empty and loaded weight certificates to the invoice for services.
47.206 Preparation of solicitations and contracts. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall prepare solicitations and contracts for transportation or for transportation-related services as prescribed elsewhere in the FAR for fixed-price service contracts to the extent that those requirements are applicable and not inconsistent with the requirements in subpart  47.2. (b) (b) In addition, the contracting officer shall include in solicitations and contracts for transportation or for transportation-related services provisions, clauses, and instructions as prescribed in section 47.207.
31.205-46 Travel costs. (a) (a) Costs for transportation, lodging, meals, and incidental expenses. (b) (b) Airfare costs in excess of the lowest priced airfare available to the contractor during normal business hours are unallowable except when such accommodations require circuitous routing, require travel during unreasonable hours, excessively prolong travel, result in increased cost that would offset transportation savings, are not reasonably adequate for the physical or medical needs of the traveler, or are not reasonably available to meet mission requirements. However, in order for airfare costs in excess of the above airfare to be allowable, the applicable condition(s) set forth above must be documented and justified. (c) (c) (d) (d) Costs of contractor-owned or -leased automobiles, as used in this paragraph, include the costs of lease, operation (including personnel), maintenance, depreciation, insurance, etc. These costs are allowable, if reasonable, to the extent that the automobiles are used for company business. That portion of the cost of company-furnished automobiles that relates to personal use by employees (including transportation to and from work) is compensation for personal services and is unallowable as stated in 31.205-6(m)(2).
3.301 General. (a) (a) Practices that eliminate competition or restrain trade usually lead to excessive prices and may warrant criminal, civil, or administrative action against the participants. Examples of anticompetitive practices are collusive bidding, follow-the-leader pricing, rotated low bids, collusive price estimating systems, and sharing of the business. (b) (b) Contracting personnel are an important potential source of investigative leads for antitrust enforcement and should therefore be sensitive to indications of unlawful behavior by offerors and contractors. Agency personnel shall report, in accordance with agency regulations, evidence of suspected antitrust violations in acquisitions for possible referral to-
22.1904 Annual Executive Order Minimum Wage Rate. (a) (a) For the E.O. minimum wage rate that becomes effective on January 30, 2022, and annually thereafter, the Administrator will- (b) (b)
42.902 Procedures. (a) (a) When notified of bankruptcy proceedings, agencies shall, as a minimum- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall consult with legal counsel, whenever possible, prior to taking any action regarding the contractor’s bankruptcy proceedings.
52.211 [Reserved] No subsections found.
53.109 Forms prescribed by other regulations. No subsections found.
29.202 General exemptions. (a) (a) The exclusive use of any State or political subdivision, including the District of Columbia (26 U.S.C. 4041 and 4221). (b) (b) Shipment for export to a foreign country or an outlying area of the United States. Shipment must occur within 6 months of the time title passes to the Government. When the exemption is claimed, the words "for export" must appear on the contract or purchase document, and the contracting officer must furnish the seller proof of export (see 26 CFR 48.4221-3). (c) (c) Further manufacture, or resale for further manufacture (this exemption does not include tires and inner tubes) (26 CFR 48.4221-2). (d) (d) Use as fuel supplies, ships or sea stores, or legitimate equipment on vessels of war, including (1) aircraft owned by the United States and constituting a part of the armed forces and (2) guided missiles and pilotless aircraft owned or chartered by the United States. When this exemption is to be claimed, the purchase should be made on a tax-exclusive basis. The contracting officer shall furnish the seller an exemption certificate for Supplies for Vessels of War (an example is given in 26 CFR 48.4221-4(d)(2) ; the IRS will accept one certificate covering all orders under a single contract for a specified period of up to 12 calendar quarters) (26 U.S.C. 4041 and 4221). (e) (e) A nonprofit educational organization (26 U.S.C. 4041 and 4221). (f) (f) Emergency vehicles (26 U.S.C. 4053 and 4064(b)(1)(c)).
3.907-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
16.206 Fixed-ceiling-price contracts with retroactive price redetermination. No subsections found.
26.202-1 Local area set-aside. No subsections found.
52.229-9 Taxes-Cost-Reimbursement Contracts with Foreign Governments. (a) (a) Any tax or duty from which the United States Government is exempt by agreement with the Government of ______ [insert name of the foreign government], or from which any subcontractor under this contract is exempt under the laws of ______ [insert name of country], shall not constitute an allowable cost under this contract. (b) (b) If any subcontractor obtains a foreign tax credit that reduces its Federal income tax liability under the United States Internal Revenue Code (Title26, U.S. Code) because of the payment of any tax or duty that was reimbursed under this contract, the amount of the reduction shall be paid (not credited to the contract) to the Treasurer of the United States at the time the Federal income tax return is filed.
36.205 Statutory cost limitations. (a) (a) Contracts for construction shall not be awarded at a cost to the Government- (b) (b) Solicitations containing one or more items subject to statutory cost limitations shall state- (c) (c) The Government shall reject an offer if its prices exceed applicable statutory limitations, unless laws or agency procedures provide pertinent exemptions. However, if it is in the Government’s interest, the contracting officer may include a provision in the solicitation which permits the award of separate contracts for individual items whose prices are within or subject to applicable statutory limitations. (d) (d) The Government shall also reject an offer if its prices are within statutory limitations only because it is materially unbalanced. An offer is unbalanced if its prices are significantly less than cost for some work, and overstated for other work.
52.215-15 Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions. (a) (a) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer in writing when it determines that it will terminate a defined-benefit pension plan or otherwise recapture such pension fund assets. (b) (b) For segment closings, pension plan terminations, or curtailment of benefits, the amount of the adjustment shall be- (c) (c) For all other situations where assets revert to the Contractor, or such assets are constructively received by it for any reason, the Contractor shall, at the Government’s option, make a refund or give a credit to the Government for its equitable share of the gross amount withdrawn. The Government’s equitable share shall reflect the Government’s participation in pension costs through those contracts for which certified cost or pricing data were submitted or that are subject to FAR subpart  31.2. (d) (d) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract that meet the applicability requirement of FAR 15.408(g).
52.229-10 State of New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax. (a) (a) Within thirty (30) days after award of this contract, the Contractor shall advise the State of New Mexico of this contract by registering with the State of New Mexico, Taxation and Revenue Department, Revenue Division, pursuant to the Tax Administration Act of the State of New Mexico and shall identify the contract number. (b) (b) The Contractor shall pay the New Mexico gross receipts taxes, pursuant to the Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax Act of New Mexico, assessed against the contract fee and costs paid for performance of this contract, or of any part or portion thereof, within the State of New Mexico. The allowability of any gross receipts taxes or local option taxes lawfully paid to the State of New Mexico by the Contractor or its subcontractors will be determined in accordance with the Allowable Cost and Payment clause of this contract except as provided in paragraph (d) of this clause. (c) (c) The Contractor shall submit applications for Nontaxable Transaction Certificates, FormCSR-3 C, to the: (d) (d) The Contractor shall provide Type 15 Nontaxable Transaction Certificates to each vendor in New Mexico selling tangible personal property to the Contractor for use in the performance of this contract. Failure to provide a Type 15 Nontaxable Transaction Certificate to vendors will result in the vendor’s liability for the gross receipt taxes and those taxes, which are then passed on to the Contractor, shall not be reimbursable as an allowable cost by the Government. (e) (e) The Contractor shall pay the New Mexico compensating user tax for any tangible personal property which is purchased pursuant to a Nontaxable Transaction Certificate if such property is not used for Federal purposes. (f) (f) Out-of-state purchase of tangible personal property by the Contractor which would be otherwise subject to compensation tax shall be governed by the principles of this clause. Accordingly, compensating tax shall be due from the contractor only if such property is not used for Federal purposes. (g) (g) The (*_______________) may receive information regarding the Contractor from the Revenue Division of the New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department and, at the discretion of the (*_________________), may participate in any matters or proceedings pertaining to this clause or the abovementioned Agreement. This shall not preclude the Contractor from having its own representative nor does it obligate the (*______________) to represent its Contractor. (h) (h) The Contractor agrees to insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (h), in each subcontract which meets the criteria in 29.401-4(b)(1) through (3) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 CFR Part 29. (i) (i) Paragraphs (a) through (h) of this clause shall be null and void should the Agreement referred to in paragraph (c) of this clause be terminated; provided, however, that such termination shall not nullify obligations already incurred prior to the date of termination.
14.210 Qualified products. No subsections found.
32.702 Policy. (a) (a) Obtain written assurance from responsible fiscal authority that adequate funds are available or (b) (b) Expressly condition the contract upon availability of funds in accordance with 32.703-2.
6.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
17.500 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes policies and procedures applicable to all interagency acquisitions under any authority, except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section. In addition to complying with the interagency acquisition policy and procedures in this subpart, nondefense agencies acquiring supplies and services on behalf of the Department of Defense shall also comply with the policy and procedures at subpart  17.7. (b) (b) This subpart applies to interagency acquisitions, see 2.101 for definition, when- (c) (c) This subpart does not apply to-
22.1001 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 32.5 - Progress Payments Based on Costs No subsections found.
22.303 Administration and enforcement. No subsections found.
52.211-3 Availability of Specifications Not Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions. No subsections found.
4.701 Purpose. No subsections found.
15.301 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.109-6 Joint settlement of two or more settlement proposals. (a) (a) With the consent of the contractor, the TCO or TCO’s concerned may negotiate jointly two or more termination settlement proposals of the same contractor under different contracts, even though the contracts are with different contracting offices or agencies. In such cases, accounting work shall be consolidated to the greatest extent practical. The resulting settlement may be evidenced by one settlement agreement covering all contracts involved or by a separate agreement for each contract involved. (b) (b) When the settlement agreement covers more than one contract, it shall-
9.405-1 Continuation of current contracts. (a) (a) Contractors debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or voluntarily excluded . (b) (b) Ineligible contractors. A covered agency, as defined in 9.110-1, shall terminate existing contracts and shall not place new orders or award new contracts with contractors that have been declared ineligible pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 983 (see 9.110), except for contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.
Subpart 23.7 - Reserved No subsections found.
49.402-2 Effect of termination for default. (a) (a) Under a termination for default, the Government is not liable for the contractor’s costs on undelivered work and is entitled to the repayment of advance and progress payments, if any, applicable to that work. The Government may elect, under the Default clause, to require the contractor to transfer title and deliver to the Government completed supplies and manufacturing materials, as directed by the contracting officer. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall not use the Default clause as authority to acquire any completed supplies or manufacturing materials unless it has been ascertained that the Government does not already have title under some other provision of the contract. The contracting officer shall acquire manufacturing materials under the Default clause for furnishing to another contractor only after considering the difficulties the other contractor may have in using the materials. (c) (c) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the Government shall pay the contractor the contract price for any completed supplies, and the amount agreed upon by the contracting officer and the contractor for any manufacturing materials, acquired by the Government under the Default clause. (d) (d) The Government must be protected from overpayment that might result from failure to provide for the Government’s potential liability to laborers and material suppliers for lien rights outstanding against the completed supplies or materials after the Government has paid the contractor for them. To accomplish this, before paying for supplies or materials, the contracting officer shall take one or more of the following measures: (e) (e) The contractor is liable to the Government for any excess costs incurred in acquiring supplies and services similar to those terminated for default (see 49.402-6), and for any other damages, whether or not repurchase is effected (see 49.402-7).
4.1301 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies must follow FIPS PUB Number 201 and the associated OMB implementation guidance for personal identity verification for all affected contractor and subcontractor personnel when contract performance requires contractors to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. (b) (b) Agencies must include their implementation of FIPS PUB 201 and OMB Guidance M-05-24 in solicitations and contracts that require the contractor to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. (c) (c) Agencies must designate an official responsible for verifying contractor employee personal identity. (d) (d)
42.1107 Contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.242-2, Production Progress Reports, in solicitations and contracts when production progress reporting is required; unless a construction contract, or a Federal Supply Schedule contract is contemplated. (b) (b) When the clause at 52.242-2 is used, the contracting officer shall specify appropriate reporting instructions in the Schedule (see 42.1106(a)).
46.709 Warranties of commercial products and commercial services. No subsections found.
Subpart 9.3 - First Article Testing and Approval No subsections found.
52.222-5 Construction Wage Rate Requirements-Secondary Site of the Work. (a) (a) (b) (b)
26.604 Policy. (a) (a) Company-owned or rented vehicles or Government-owned vehicles; or (b) (b) Privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work for or on behalf of the Government.
28.106-8 Payment to subcontractors or suppliers. No subsections found.
15.403-5 Instructions for submission	of certified cost or pricing data and data other than certified	cost or pricing data. (a) (a) Taking into consideration the	policy at 15.402, the contracting	officer shall specify in the solicitation (see 15.408(l) and (m))- (b) (b)
44.301 Objective. No subsections found.
19.1403 Status. (a) (a) Status as an SDVOSB concern is determined by SBA in accordance with 13 CFR part 128; also see 19.307. (b) (b) For an SDVOSB concern that seeks an SDVOSB set-aside or sole-source contract, the contracting officer shall verify that the offeror— (c) (c) If there is a decision issued by SBA as a result of a current eligibility examination finding that the concern did not qualify as an SDVOSB concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program or SBA denies a concern’s application for SDVOSB certification, the concern must update its SDVOSB status in SAM within 2 days of SBA’s final decision to reflect that the concern is not an eligible SDVOSB. SBA will update the concern’s SDVOSB status in SAM within 2 days of the concern’s failure to make the update. (d) (d) Effective January 1, 2024, a joint venture may be considered an SDVOSB concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program if—
53.208 [Reserved] No subsections found.
47.104-5 Citation of Government rate tenders. No subsections found.
27.305-3 Securing invention rights acquired by the Government. (a) (a) Agencies are responsible for implementing procedures necessary to protect the Government’s interest in subject inventions. When the Government acquires the entire right, title, and interest in an invention by contract, the chain of title from the inventor to the Government shall be clearly established. This is normally accomplished by an assignment either from each inventor to the contractor and from the contractor to the Government, or from the inventor to the Government with the consent of the contractor. When the Government’s rights are limited to a license, there should be a confirmatory instrument to that effect. (b) (b) Agencies may, by supplemental instructions, develop suitable assignments, licenses, and other papers evidencing any rights of the Government in patents or patents applications. These instruments should be recorded in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (see Executive Order 9424, Establishing in the United States Patent Office a Register of Government Interests in Patents and Applications for Patents, (February 18, 1944).
3.104-6 Ethics advisory opinions regarding prohibitions on a former official’s acceptance of compensation from a contractor. (a) (a) An official or former official of a Federal agency who does not know whether he or she is or would be precluded by 41 U.S.C. 2104 (see 3.104-3(d)) from accepting compensation from a particular contractor may request advice from the appropriate agency ethics official before accepting such compensation. (b) (b) The request for an advisory opinion must be in writing, include all relevant information reasonably available to the official or former official, and be dated and signed. The request must include information about the- (c) (c) Within 30 days after receipt of a request containing complete information, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the agency ethics official should issue an opinion on whether the proposed conduct would violate 41 U.S.C. 2104. (d) (d)
32.1005 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.232-32, Performance-Based Payments, in- (b) (b)
37.602 Performance work statement. (a) (a) A Performance work statement (PWS) may be prepared by the Government or result from a Statement of objectives (SOO) prepared by the Government where the offeror proposes the PWS. (b) (b) Agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable- (c) (c) Offerors use the SOO to develop the PWS; however, the SOO does not become part of the contract. The SOO shall, at a minimum, include-
8.716 Change-of-name and successor in interest procedures. (a) (a) The Committee will provide a notice of a change to the Procurement List to the cognizant contracting officers; and (b) (b) Upon receipt of a notice of a change to the Procurement List from the Committee, the contracting officer must-
25.402 General. (a) (a) (b) (b) The value of the acquisition is a determining factor in the applicability of trade agreements. Most of these dollar thresholds are subject to revision by the U.S. Trade Representative approximately every 2 years. The various thresholds are summarized as follows:
3.501-1 Definition. No subsections found.
3.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
35.003 Policy. (a) (a) Use of contracts. Contracts shall be used only when the principal purpose is the acquisition of supplies or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. Grants or cooperative agreements should be used when the principal purpose of the transaction is to stimulate or support research and development for another public purpose. (b) (b) Cost sharing. Cost sharing policies (which are not otherwise required by law) under Government contracts shall be in accordance with 16.303, 42.707(a) and agency procedures. (c) (c) Recoupment. Recoupment not otherwise required by law shall be in accordance with agency procedures.
13.305-2 Agency responsibilities. (a) (a) Periodically review and determine whether there is a continuing need for each fund or third party draft account established, and that amounts of those funds or accounts are not in excess of actual needs; (b) (b) Take prompt action to have imprest funds or third party draft accounts adjusted to a level commensurate with demonstrated needs whenever circumstances warrant such action; and (c) (c) Develop and issue appropriate implementing regulations. These regulations shall include (but are not limited to) procedures covering-
27.203 Security requirements for patent applications containing classified subject matter. No subsections found.
Subpart 38.1 - Federal Supply Schedule Program No subsections found.
53.235 Research and development contracting (SF 298). No subsections found.
31.201-4 Determining allocability. (a) (a) Is incurred specifically for the contract; (b) (b) Benefits both the contract and other work, and can be distributed to them in reasonable proportion to the benefits received; or (c) (c) Is necessary to the overall operation of the business, although a direct relationship to any particular cost objective cannot be shown.
16.206-1 Description. (a) (a) A fixed ceiling price; and (b) (b) Retroactive price redetermination within the ceiling after completion of the contract.
9.104-1 General standards. (a) (a) Have adequate financial resources to perform the contract, or the ability to obtain them (see 9.104-3(a)); (b) (b) Be able to comply with the required or proposed delivery or performance schedule, taking into consideration all existing commercial and governmental business commitments; (c) (c) Have a satisfactory performance record (see 9.104-3 (b) and subpart  42.15). A prospective contractor shall not be determined responsible or nonresponsible solely on the basis of a lack of relevant performance history, except as provided in 9.104-2; (d) (d) Have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics (for example, see subpart  42.15); (e) (e) Have the necessary organization, experience, accounting and operational controls, and technical skills, or the ability to obtain them (including, as appropriate, such elements as production control procedures, property control systems, quality assurance measures, and safety programs applicable to materials to be produced or services to be performed by the prospective contractor and subcontractors). (See 9.104-3(a).) (f) (f) Have the necessary production, construction, and technical equipment and facilities, or the ability to obtain them (see 9.104-3(a)); and (g) (g) Be otherwise qualified and eligible to receive an award under applicable laws and regulations (see also inverted domestic corporation prohibition at 9.108).
Subpart 29.3 - State and Local Taxes No subsections found.
50.104-1 Standards for use. No subsections found.
1.601 General. (a) (a) Unless specifically prohibited by another provision of law, authority and responsibility to contract for authorized supplies and services are vested in the agency head. The agency head may establish contracting activities and delegate broad authority to manage the agency’s contracting functions to heads of such contracting activities. Contracts may be entered into and signed on behalf of the Government only by contracting officers. In some agencies, a relatively small number of high level officials are designated contracting officers solely by virtue of their positions. Contracting officers below the level of a head of a contracting activity shall be selected and appointed under 1.603. (b) (b) Agency heads may mutually agree to-
52.228-1 Bid Guarantee. (a) (a) Failure to furnish a bid guarantee in the proper form and amount, by the time set for opening of bids, may be cause for rejection of the bid. (b) (b) The bidder shall furnish a bid guarantee in the form of a firm commitment, e.g., bid bond supported by good and sufficient surety or sureties acceptable to the Government, postal money order, certified check, cashier’s check, irrevocable letter of credit, or, under Treasury Department regulations, certain bonds or notes of the United States. The Contracting Officer will return bid guarantees, other than bid bonds- (c) (c) The amount of the bid guarantee shall be ______ percent of the bid price or $________, whichever is less. (d) (d) If the successful bidder, upon acceptance of its bid by the Government within the period specified for acceptance, fails to execute all contractual documents or furnish executed bond(s) within 10 days after receipt of the forms by the bidder, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract for default. (e) (e) In the event the contract is terminated for default, the bidder is liable for any cost of acquiring the work that exceeds the amount of its bid, and the bid guarantee is available to offset the difference.
Subpart 3.7 - Voiding and Rescinding Contracts No subsections found.
52.247-57 Transportation Transit Privilege Credits. (a) (a) If the offeror has established with regulated common carriers transit privileges that can be applied to the supplies when shipped from the original source, the offeror is invited to propose to use these credits for shipping the supplies to the designated Government destinations. The offeror will ship these supplies under commercial bills of lading, paying all remaining transportation charges connected with the shipment, subject to reimbursement by the Government in an amount equal to the remaining charges but not exceeding the amount quoted by the offeror. (b) (b) After loading on the carrier’s equipment and acceptance by the carrier, these shipments under paid commercial bills of lading will move for the account of and at the risk of the Government (unless, pursuant to the Changes clause, the office administering the contract directs use of Government bills of lading). (c) (c) The amount quoted below by the offeror represents the transportation costs in cents per 100 pounds (freight rate) for full carload/truckload shipments of the supplies from offeror’s original source, via offeror’s transit plant or point, to the Government destination(s) including the carrier’s transit privilege charge, less the applicable transit credit (i.e., the amount (rate) initially paid to the carrier for shipment from original source to offeror’s transit plant or point). (d) (d) The rate per CWT quoted will be used by the Government to evaluate the offered f.o.b. origin price unless a lower rate is applicable on the date of bid opening (or closing date specified for receipt of offers). To have the offer evaluated on this basis, the offeror must insert below the remaining transportation charges that the offeror agrees to pay, including any transit charges, subject to reimbursement by the Government, as explained in this clause, to destinations listed in the Schedule as follows:
52.219-22 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.227-17 Rights in Data-Special Works. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Allocation of Rights. (c) (c) Copyright- (d) (d) Release and use restrictions. Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this contract, the Contractor shall not use, release, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced in the performance of this contract, nor authorize others to do so, without written permission of the Contracting Officer. (e) (e) Indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents, and employees acting for the Government against any liability, including costs and expenses, incurred as the result of the violation of trade secrets, copyrights, or right of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery, publication, or use of any data furnished under this contract; or any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such data. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply unless the Government provides notice to the Contractor as soon as practicable of any claim or suit, affords the Contractor an opportunity under applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in the defense of the claim or suit, and obtains the Contractor’s consent to the settlement of any claim or suit other than as required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and these provisions do not apply to material furnished to the Contractor by the Government and incorporated in data to which this clause applies.
52.244-5 Competition in Subcontracting. (a) (a) The Contractor shall select subcontractors (including suppliers) on a competitive basis to the maximum practical extent consistent with the objectives and requirements of the contract. (b) (b) If the Contractor is an approved mentor under the DoD Mentor-Protégé Program (10 U.S.C. 4902), the Contractor may award subcontracts under this contract on a noncompetitive basis to its protégés.
53.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
41.201 Policy. (a) (a) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, it is the policy of the Federal Government that agencies obtain required utility services from sources of supply which are most advantageous to the Government in terms of economy, efficiency, reliability, or service. (b) (b) Except for acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, agencies shall acquire utility services by a bilateral written contract, which must include the clauses required by 41.501, regardless of whether rates or terms and conditions of service are fixed or adjusted by a regulatory body. Agencies may not use the utility supplier’s forms and clauses to avoid the inclusion of provisions and clauses required by 41.501 or by statute. (See 41.202(c) for procedures to be used when the supplier refuses to execute a written contract.) (c) (c) Specific operating and management details, such as procedures for internal agency contract assistance and review, delegations of authority, and approval thresholds, may be prescribed by an individual agency subject to compliance with applicable statutes and regulations. (d) (d) (e) (e) Prior to acquiring	electric utility services on a competitive basis, the contracting officer	shall determine, with the advice of legal counsel, by a market survey or any	other appropriate means, e.g.,consultation with the state agency responsible for regulating public	utilities, that such competition would not be inconsistent with state law	governing the provision of electric utility service, including state utility	commission rulings and electric utility franchises or service territories	established pursuant to state statute, state regulation, or state-approved	territorial agreements. Proposals from alternative electric suppliers shall	provide a representation that service can be provided in a manner consistent	with section 8093 of Public Law100-202 (see 41.201(d)).
8.405-5 Small business. (a) (a) Although the preference programs of part 19 are not mandatory in this subpart, in accordance with section 1331 of Public Law 111-240 (15 U.S.C. 644(r))- (b) (b) Orders placed under schedule contracts may be credited toward the ordering activity’s small business goals. For purposes of reporting an order placed with a small business schedule contractor, an ordering agency may only take credit if the awardee meets a size standard that corresponds to the North American Industry Classification System code assigned to the order in accordance with 19.102(b)(3). Ordering activities should rely on the small business representations made by schedule contractors at the contract level (but see 19.301-2(b)(3) concerning rerepresentation for an order). (c) (c) Ordering activities may consider socio-economic status when identifying contractor(s) for consideration or competition for award of an order or BPA. At a minimum, ordering activities should consider, if available, at least one small business, veteran-owned small business, service disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, women-owned small business, or small disadvantaged business schedule contractor(s). GSA Advantage! and Schedules e-Library at http://www.gsa.gov/fas contain information on the small business representations of Schedule contractors. (d) (d) For orders exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, ordering activities should give preference to the items of small business concerns when two or more items at the same delivered price will satisfy the requirement.
49.207 Limitation on settlements. No subsections found.
46.408 Single-agency assignments of Government contract quality assurance. (a) (a) Government-wide responsibility for quality assurance support for acquisitions of certain commodities is assigned as follows: (b) (b) Agencies requiring quality assurance support for acquiring these supplies should request the support directly from the cognizant office.
26.505 Suspension of payments, termination of contract, and debarment and suspension actions. (a) (a) After determining in writing that adequate evidence to suspect any of the causes at paragraph (d) of this section exists, the contracting officer may suspend contract payments in accordance with the procedures at 32.503-6(a)(1). (b) (b) After determining in writing that any of the causes at paragraph (d) of this section exist, the contracting officer may terminate the contract for default. (c) (c) Upon initiating action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the contracting officer shall refer the case to the agency suspending and debarring official, in accordance with agency procedures, pursuant to subpart  9.4. (d) (d) The specific causes for suspension of contract payments, termination of a contract for default, or suspension and debarment are- (e) (e) A determination under this section to suspend contract payments, terminate a contract for default, or debar or suspend a contractor may be waived by the agency head for a particular contract, in accordance with agency procedures, only if such waiver is necessary to prevent a severe disruption of the agency operation to the detriment of the Federal Government or the general public (see subpart  9.4). The waiver authority of the agency head cannot be delegated.
30.202-1 General requirements. No subsections found.
4.2306 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) In all Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition contracts, and multi-agency contracts where FASCSA orders are applied at the order level, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-28, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts, and Multi-Agency Contracts, in the basic contract solicitation and resultant contract (see 4.2304(b)(1)(ii)). (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.204-29, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures— (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.204-30, Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition—
52.230-6 Administration of Cost Accounting Standards. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Submit to the CFAO a description of any cost accounting practice change as outlined in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this clause (including revisions to the Disclosure Statement, if applicable), and any written statement that the cost impact of the change is immaterial. If a change in cost accounting practice is implemented without submitting the notice required by this paragraph, the CFAO may determine the change to be a failure to follow paragraph (a)(2) of the clause at FAR 52.230-2, Cost Accounting Standards; paragraph (a)(4) of the clause at FAR 52.230-3, Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices; paragraph (a)(4) of the clause at FAR 52.230-4, Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices–Foreign Concerns; or paragraph (a)(2) of the clause at FAR 52.230-5, Cost Accounting Standards–Educational Institution. (c) (c) When requested by the CFAO, submit on or before a date specified by the CFAO- (d) (d) For any change in cost accounting practice subject to paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this clause, the GDM proposal shall- (e) (e) For any change in cost accounting practice subject to paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this clause, the DCI proposal shall- (f) (f) For GDM and DCI proposals that are subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of this clause, calculate the cost impact as follows: (g) (g) For any noncompliant cost accounting practice subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this clause, prepare the GDM proposal as follows: (h) (h) For any noncompliant practice subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this clause, prepare the DCI proposal as follows: (i) (i) For GDM and DCI proposals that are subject to the requirements of paragraph (g) or (h) of this clause, calculate the cost impact as follows: (j) (j) If the Contractor does not submit the information required by paragraph (b) or (c) of this clause within the specified time, or any extension granted by the CFAO, the CFAO may take one or both of the following actions: (k) (k) Agree to- (l) (l) For all subcontracts subject to the clauses at FAR 52.230-2, 52.230-3, 52.230-4, or 52.230-5- (m) (m) Notify the CFAO in writing of any adjustments required to subcontracts under this contract and agree to an adjustment to this contract price or estimated cost and fee. The Contractor shall- (n) (n) For subcontracts containing the clause or substance of the clause at FAR 52.230-2, FAR 52.230-3, FAR 52.230-4, or FAR 52.230-5, require the subcontractor to comply with all Standards in effect on the date of award or of final agreement on price, as shown on the subcontractor’s signed Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, whichever is earlier.
8.101 [Reserved] No subsections found.
19.501 General. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer makes the determination to make a small business set-aside, in total or in part, or a reserve. The Small Business Administration (SBA) procurement center representative (PCR) (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) may make a recommendation to the contracting officer. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall review acquisitions to determine if they can be set aside, in total or in part, or reserved for small business, giving consideration to the recommendations of agency personnel in the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, or for the Department of Defense, in the Office of Small Business Programs. Agencies may establish threshold levels for this review depending upon their needs. (d) (d) At the request of an SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see 19.402(a)), the contracting officer shall make available for review at the contracting office (to the extent of the SBA representative's security clearance) any proposed acquisition in excess of the micro-purchase threshold. (e) (e) All solicitations involving set-asides, in total or in part, or reserves shall specify the NAICS code(s) and corresponding size standard(s) (see 19.102). (f) (f) Except as authorized by law, a contract may not be awarded as a result of a small business set-aside if the cost to the awarding agency exceeds the fair market price. (g) (g) For the applicability of the limitations on subcontracting and the nonmanufacturer rule, see 19.505.
44.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part prescribes policies and procedures for consent to subcontracts or advance notification of subcontracts, and for review, evaluation, and approval of contractors’ purchasing systems. (b) (b) The consent and advance notification requirements of subpart  44.2 are not applicable to prime contracts for commercial supplies or commercial services acquired pursuant to part  12.
19.804-4 Repetitive acquisitions. (a) (a) Whether the requirement should be a competitive 8(a) award; (b) (b) A nominated 8(a) participant's eligibility, and whether or not it is the same 8(a) participant that performed the previous contract; (c) (c) The effect that contract award would have on the equitable distribution of 8(a) contracts; and (d) (d) Whether the requirement should continue under the 8(a) program.
Subpart 31.4 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
30.202 Disclosure requirements. No subsections found.
52.212-2 Evaluation—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: (b) (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer’s specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award.
15.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
4.1000 Scope. No subsections found.
47.303-17 Contractor-prepaid commercial bills of lading, small package shipments. (a) (a) If it is advantageous to the Government, the contracting officer may authorize the contractor to ship supplies, which have been acquired f.o.b. origin, to domestic destinations, including DoD air and water terminals by common carriers on commercial bills of lading. Such shipments shall not exceed 150 pounds by commercial air or 1,000 pounds by other commercial carriers and shall not have a security classification. (b) (b) The contracting officer may authorize the shipments under paragraph (a) of this subsection to be consolidated with the contractor’s own prepaid shipments for delivery to one or more destinations, if all appropriate f.o.b. origin shipments under one or more Government contracts have been consolidated initially. The contractor may be authorized to consolidate less-than-carload or less-than-truckload Government shipments with its own shipments so that the Government can take advantage of lower carload or truckload freight costs. The Government shall assume its pro rata share of the combined shipment cost. Agency transportation personnel shall evaluate overall transportation costs before authorizing any movement to ensure savings to the Government consistent with other contract and traffic management considerations. When consolidation is authorized, a copy of the commercial bill of lading shall be mailed promptly to each consignee. (c) (c) Shipments under prepaid commercial bills of lading, as authorized in paragraph (a) of this subsection, do not require a contract modification. Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the supplies move for the account of, and at the risk of, the Government. The supplies become Government property when loaded on the carrier’s equipment and the contractor has obtained the carrier’s receipt. The contractor pays the transportation charges and is reimbursed by the Government. Loss or damage claims shall be processed in accordance with agency regulations. (d) (d) The contractor’s invoice for reimbursement by the Government shall show the prepaid transportation charges as agreed (see paragraph (b) of this subsection), as a separate item for each individual shipment. The contractor shall support the transportation charges with a copy of the carrier’s receipted freight bill or other evidence of receipt, except as follows: (e) (e) Shipments and invoices shall not be split to reduce transportation charges to $100 or less per transaction as a means of avoiding the required documented support for the charges. See paragraph (d)(2) of this subsection for unsupported transportation charges of $250 or less. (f) (f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-65, F.o.b. Origin, Prepaid Freight-Small Package Shipments, in solicitations and contracts when f.o.b. origin shipments are to be made.
52.216-12 Cost-Sharing Contract-No Fee. (a) (a) The Government shall not pay to the Contractor a fee for performing this contract. (b) (b) After paying 80 percent of the Government’s share of the total estimated cost of performance shown in the Schedule, the Contracting Officer may withhold further payment of allowable cost until a reserve is set aside in an amount that the Contracting Officer considers necessary to protect the Government’s interest. This reserve shall not exceed onepercent of the Government’s share of the total estimated cost shown in the Schedule or $100,000, whichever is less.
32.403 Applicability. (a) (a) Contracts for experimental, research, or development work with nonprofit educational or research institutions. (b) (b) Contracts solely for the management and operation of Government-owned plants. (c) (c) Contracts for acquisition, at cost, of property for Government ownership. (d) (d) Contracts of such a highly classified nature that the agency considers it undesirable for national security to permit assignment of claims under the contract. (e) (e) Contracts entered into with financially weak contractors whose technical ability is considered essential to the agency. In these cases, the agency shall closely monitor the contractor’s performance and financial controls to reduce the Government’s financial risk. (f) (f) Contracts for which a loan by a private financial institution is not practicable, whether or not a loan guarantee under this part is issued; for example, if- (g) (g) Contracts with small business concerns, under which circumstances that make advance payments appropriate often occur (but see 32.104(b)). (h) (h) Contracts under which exceptional circumstances make advance payments the most advantageous contract financing method for both the Government and the contractor.
15.209 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-1, Instructions to Offerors-Competitive Acquisition, in all competitive solicitations where the Government intends to award a contract without discussions. (b) (b) (c) (c) When issuing a solicitation for information or planning purposes, the contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-3, Request for Information or Solicitation for Planning Purposes, and clearly mark on the face of the solicitation that it is for information or planning purposes. (d) (d) [Reserved] (e) (e) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals, in solicitations if facsimile proposals are authorized (see 15.203(d)). (f) (f) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-6, Place of Performance, in solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (g) (g) [Reserved] (h) (h) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-8, Order of Precedence-Uniform Contract Format, in solicitations and contracts using the format at 15.204.
19.202-3 Equal low bids. No subsections found.
52.214-22 Evaluation of Bids for Multiple Awards. No subsections found.
4.705-3 Acquisition and supply records. (a) (a) Store requisitions for materials, supplies, equipment, and services: Retain 2 years. (b) (b) Work orders for maintenance and other services: Retain 4 years. (c) (c) Equipment records, consisting of equipment usage and status reports and equipment repair orders: Retain 4 years. (d) (d) Expendable property records, reflecting accountability for the receipt and use of material in the performance of a contract: Retain 4 years. (e) (e) Receiving and inspection report records, consisting of reports reflecting receipt and inspection of supplies, equipment, and materials: Retain 4 years. (f) (f) Purchase order files for supplies, equipment, material, or services used in the performance of a contract; supporting documentation and backup files including, but not limited to, invoices, and memoranda; e.g., memoranda of negotiations showing the principal elements of subcontract price negotiations (see 52.244-2): Retain 4 years. (g) (g) Production records of quality control, reliability, and inspection: Retain 4 years. (h) (h) Property records (see FAR 45.101 and 52.245-1): Retain 4 years.
17.601 Definition. No subsections found.
6.201 Policy. No subsections found.
22.1300 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) The Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1972 (38 U.S.C. 4211 and 4212) (the Act). (b) (b) The Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998, Public Law 105-339. (c) (c) The Jobs for Veterans Act, Public Law 107-288. (d) (d) Executive Order 11701, January 24, 1973 (3 CFR 1971 - 1975 Comp., p. 752). (e) (e) The regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR part 60-300 and 61-300).
3.905 Remedies and enforcement of orders. No subsections found.
27.202-5 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. (a) (a) (b) (b) If the Government is obligated to pay a royalty on a patent involved in the prospective contract, insert in the solicitation a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.227-7, Patents-Notice of Government Licensee. If the clause at 52.227-6 is not included in the solicitation, the contracting officer may require offerors to provide information sufficient to provide this notice to the other offerors. (c) (c) Insert the clause at 52.227-9, Refund of Royalties, in negotiated fixed-price solicitations and contracts when royalties may be paid under the contract. If a fixed-price incentive contract is contemplated, change "price" to "target cost and target profit" wherever it appears in the clause. The clause may be used in cost-reimbursement contracts where agency approval of royalties is necessary to protect the Government’s interests.
19.708 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns, in solicitations and contracts when the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold unless- (b) (b) (c) (c)
36.104 Policy. (a) (a) Unless the traditional acquisition approach of design-bid-build established under 40 U.S.C. chapter 11, Selection of Architects and Engineers, or another acquisition procedure authorized by law is used, the contracting officer shall use the two-phase selection procedures authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3241 or 41 U.S.C.3309 when entering into a contract for the design and construction of a public building, facility, or work, if the contracting officer makes a determination that the procedures are appropriate for use (see subpart  36.3). Other acquisition procedures authorized by law include the procedures established in this part and other parts of this chapter and, for DoD, the design-build process described in 10 U.S.C. 2862. (b) (b) Agencies shall implement high-performance sustainable building design, construction, renovation, repair, commissioning, operation and maintenance, management, and deconstruction practices so as to— (c) (c)
13.306 SF 44, Purchase Order-Invoice-Voucher. (a) (a) This form may be used if all of the following conditions are satisfied: (b) (b) General procedural instructions governing the form’s use are printed on the form and on the inside front cover of each book of forms. (c) (c) Since there is, for all practical purposes, simultaneous placement of the order and delivery of the items, clauses are not required for purchases using this form. (d) (d) Agencies shall provide adequate safeguards regarding the control of forms and accounting for purchases.
46.601 General. No subsections found.
Subpart 23.10 - Reserved No subsections found.
53.204-2 [Reserved] No subsections found.
9.505-1 Providing systems engineering and technical direction. (a) (a) A contractor that provides systems engineering and technical direction for a system but does not have overall contractual responsibility for its development, its integration, assembly, and checkout, or its production shall not- (b) (b) Systems engineering includes a combination of substantially all of the following activities: determining specifications, identifying and resolving interface problems, developing test requirements, evaluating test data, and supervising design. Technical direction includes a combination of substantially all of the following activities: developing work statements, determining parameters, directing other contractors’ operations, and resolving technical controversies. In performing these activities, a contractor occupies a highly influential and responsible position in determining a system’s basic concepts and supervising their execution by other contractors. Therefore this contractor should not be in a position to make decisions favoring its own products or capabilities.
5.701 Scope. No subsections found.
19.803 Selecting acquisitions for the 8(a) Program. (a) (a) The SBA advises the contracting activity of an 8(a) participant's capabilities through a search letter and requests the contracting activity to identify acquisitions to support the participant's business plans. In these instances, the SBA will provide at a minimum the following information in order to enable the contracting activity to match an acquisition to the participant's capabilities: (b) (b) The SBA identifies a specific requirement for one or more 8(a) participant(s) and sends a requirements letter to the agency's Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, or for the Department of Defense, Office of Small Business Programs, requesting the contracting office offer the acquisition to the 8(a) program. In these instances, in addition to the information in paragraph (a) of this section, the SBA will provide- (c) (c) Agencies may also review other proposed acquisitions for the purpose of identifying requirements which may be offered to the SBA. Where agencies independently, or through the self marketing efforts of an 8(a) participant, identify a requirement for the 8(a) program, they may offer on behalf of a specific 8(a) participant, for the 8(a) program in general, or for 8(a) competition.
14.301 Responsiveness of bids. (a) (a) To be considered for award, a bid must comply in all material respects with the invitation for bids. Such compliance enables bidders to stand on an equal footing and maintain the integrity of the sealed bidding system. (b) (b) Facsimile bids shall not be considered unless permitted by the solicitation (see 14.202-7). (c) (c) Bids should be filled out, executed, and submitted in accordance with the instructions in the invitation. If a bidder uses its own bid form or a letter to submit a bid, the bid may be considered only if- (d) (d) Bids submitted by electronic commerce shall be considered only if the electronic commerce method was specifically stipulated or permitted by the solicitation.
23.303 Notice of radioactive materials. (a) (a) The clause at 52.223-7, Notice of Radioactive Materials, requires the contractor to notify the contracting officer prior to delivery of radioactive material. (b) (b) Upon receipt of the notice, the contracting officer shall notify receiving activities so that appropriate safeguards can be taken. (c) (c) The clause permits the contracting officer to waive the notification if the contractor states that the notification on prior deliveries is still current. The contracting officer may waive the notice only after consultation with cognizant technical representatives. (d) (d) The contracting officer is required to specify in the clause at 52.223-7, the number of days in advance of delivery that the contractor will provide notification. The determination of the number of days should be done in coordination with the installation/facility radiation protection officer (RPO). The RPO is responsible for ensuring the proper license, authorization, or permit is obtained prior to receipt of the radioactive material.
31.103 Contracts with commercial organizations. (a) (a) The cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.2 and agency supplements shall be used in pricing negotiated supply, service, experimental, developmental, and research contracts and contract modifications with commercial organizations whenever cost analysis is performed as required by 15.404-1(c). (b) (b) In addition, the contracting officer shall incorporate the cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.2 and agency supplements by reference in contracts with commercial organizations as the basis for-
47.306-3 Adequacy of loading and unloading facilities. (a) (a) When determining the transportation capabilities of an offeror, the contracting officer shall consider the type and adequacy of the offeror’s shipping facilities, including the ability to consolidate and ship in carload or truckload lots. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall consider the type and adequacy of the consignee’s receiving facilities to avoid shipping schedules that cannot be properly accommodated.
39.105 Privacy. (a) (a) Agency rules of conduct that the contractor and the contractor’s employees shall be required to follow. (b) (b) A list of the anticipated threats and hazards that the contractor must guard against. (c) (c) A description of the safeguards that the contractor must specifically provide. (d) (d) Requirements for a program of Government inspection during performance of the contract that will ensure the continued efficacy and efficiency of safeguards and the discovery and countering of new threats and hazards.
22.1002-5 Executive Orders 13658 and 14026. No subsections found.
45.301 Use and rental. (a) (a) Government property shall normally be provided on a rent-free basis in performance of the contract under which it is accountable or otherwise authorized. (b) (b) Rental charges, to the extent authorized do not apply to Government property that is left in place or installed on contractor-owned property for mobilization or future Government production purposes; however, rental charges shall apply to that portion of property or its capacity used for non-government commercial purposes or otherwise authorized for use. (c) (c) The contracting officer cognizant of the Government property may authorize the rent-free use of property in the possession of nonprofit organizations when used for research, development, or educational work and- (d) (d) In exchange for consideration as determined by the cognizant contracting officer(s), the contractor may use Government property under fixed-price contracts other than the contract to which it is accountable. When, after contract award, a contractor requests the use of Government property, the contracting officer shall obtain a fair rental or other adequate consideration if use is authorized. (e) (e) The cognizant contracting officer(s) may authorize the use of Government property on a rent-free basis on a cost type Government contract other than the contract to which it is accountable. (f) (f) In exchange for consideration as determined by the cognizant contracting officer, the contractor may use Government property for commercial use. Prior approval of the Head of the Contracting Activity is required where non-Government use is expected to exceed 25 percent of the total use of Government and commercial work performed.
Subpart 50.2 - Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 No subsections found.
4.902 General. (a) (a) Debt collection. 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) requires each contractor doing business with a Government agency to furnish its TIN to that agency. 31 U.S.C. 3325(d) requires the Government to include, with each certified voucher prepared by the Government payment office and submitted to a disbursing official, the TIN of the contractor receiving payment under the voucher. The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the contractor’s relationship with the Government. (b) (b) Information reporting to the IRS. The TIN is also required for Government reporting of certain contract information (see 4.903) and payment information (see 4.904) to the IRS.
9.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
19.502-4 	Partial set-asides of multiple-award contracts. (a) (a) In accordance with section 1331 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 ( 15 U.S.C. 644(r)(1)), contracting officers may, at their discretion, set aside a portion or portions of a multiple-award contract, except for construction, for any of the small business concerns identified at 19.000(a)(3) when— (b) (b) When the contracting officer determines that a requirement is to be partially set aside, the solicitation shall identify which portion or portions are set aside and not set aside. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall specify in the solicitation how offers shall be submitted with regard to the set-aside and non-set-aside portions. (d) (d) Offers received from concerns that do not qualify as small business concerns shall be considered nonresponsive and shall be rejected on the set-aside portion of partial set-asides. However, before rejecting an offer otherwise eligible for award because of questions concerning the size representation, an SBA determination must be obtained (see subpart  19.3).
31.205-3 Bad debts. No subsections found.
47.500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
37.205 Contracting officer responsibilities. No subsections found.
32.901 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to invoice payments on all contracts, except contracts with payment terms and late payment penalties established by other governmental authority (e.g., tariffs). (b) (b) This subpart does not apply to contract financing payments (see definition at 32.001).
52.211-16 Variation in Quantity. (a) (a) A variation in the quantity of any item called for by this contract will not be accepted unless the variation has been caused by conditions of loading, shipping, or packing, or allowances in manufacturing processes, and then only to the extent, if any, specified in paragraph (b) of this clause. (b) (b) The permissible variation shall be limited to:
25.504-4 Group award basis. (a) (a) Example 1. (b) (b) Example 2. (c) (c) Example 3.
16.500 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for making awards of indefinite-delivery contracts and establishes a preference for making multiple awards of indefinite-quantity contracts. (b) (b) This subpart does not limit the use of other than competitive procedures authorized by part  6. (c) (c) Nothing in this subpart restricts the authority of the General Services Administration (GSA) to enter into schedule, multiple award, or task or delivery order contracts under any other provision of law. Therefore, GSA regulations and the coverage for the Federal Supply Schedule program in subpart  8.4 and part  38 take precedence over this subpart. (d) (d) The statutory multiple award preference implemented by this subpart does not apply to architect-engineer contracts subject to the procedures in subpart  36.6. However, agencies are not precluded from making multiple awards for architect-engineer services using the procedures in this subpart, provided the selection of contractors and placement of orders are consistent with subpart  36.6. (e) (e) See subpart  19.5 for procedures to set aside part or parts of multiple-award contracts for small businesses; to reserve one or more awards for small business on multiple-award contracts; and to set aside orders for small businesses under multiple-award contracts.
19.301-2 Rerepresentation by a contractor that represented its status as a small business concern. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this subsection- (b) (b) Requirements. A contractor that represented its status as any of the small business concerns identified at 19.000(a)(3) before contract award is required to rerepresent its size and socioeconomic status in accordance with the clause at 52.219-28, Postaward Small Business Program Rerepresentation— (c) (c) NAICS code size standard. A contractor is required to rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of its rerepresentation that corresponds to the NAICS code that was initially assigned to the contract. For multiple-award contracts where there is more than one NAICS code assigned, the contractor is required to rerepresent its size status for each NAICS code assigned to the contract. (d) (d) Procedures— (e) (e) Size status change. A change in size status does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. However, the contracting officer may require a subcontracting plan for a contract containing 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, if a prime contractor's size status changes from small to other than small as a result of a size rerepresentation (see 19.705-2(b)(3)).
7.107-1 General. (a) (a) If the requirement is considered both consolidated and bundled, the agency shall follow the guidance regarding bundling in 7.107-3, 7.107-4, and 7.107-5. (b) (b) The requirements of this section 7.107 do not apply-
15.210 Forms. (a) (a) Standard Form 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award, and Optional Form 308, Solicitation and Offer-Negotiated Acquisition, may be used to issue RFPs and RFIs. (b) (b) Standard Form 30, Amendment of Solicitation/ Modification of Contract, and Optional Form 309, Amendment of Solicitation, may be used to amend solicitations of negotiated contracts. (c) (c) Optional Form 17, Offer Label, may be furnished with each request for proposal.
8.1102 Presolicitation requirements. (a) (a) Except as specified in 8.1102(b), before preparing solicitations for leasing of motor vehicles, contracting officers shall obtain from the requiring activity a written certification that- (b) (b) With respect to requirements for leasing motor vehicles for a period of less than 60 days, the contracting officer need not obtain the certification specified in 8.1102(a)- (c) (c) Generally, solicitations shall not be limited to current year production models. However, with the prior approval of the head of the contracting office, solicitations may be limited to current models on the basis of overall economy.
3.909-2 Representation by the offeror. (a) (a) In order to be eligible for contract award, an offeror must represent that it will not require its employees or subcontractors to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of a Government contract to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information (e.g., agency Office of the Inspector General). Any offeror that does not so represent is ineligible for award of a contract. (b) (b) The contracting officer may rely on an offeror's representation unless the contracting officer has reason to question the representation.
49.206-2 Bases for settlement proposals. (a) (a) Inventory basis. (b) (b) Total cost basis. (c) (c) Other basis. Settlement proposals may not be submitted on any basis other than paragraph (a) or (b) of this section without the prior approval of the chief of the contracting or contract administration office.
52.236-8 Other Contracts. No subsections found.
31.205-25 Manufacturing and production engineering costs. (a) (a) The costs of manufacturing and production engineering effort as described in (1) through (4) of this paragraph are all allowable: (b) (b) This cost principle does not cover- (c) (c) Where manufacturing or production development costs are capitalized or required to be capitalized under the contractor’s capitalization policies, allowable cost will be determined in accordance with the requirements of 31.205-11, Depreciation.
36.503 Site investigation and conditions affecting the work. No subsections found.
17.206 Evaluation. (a) (a) In awarding the basic contract, the contracting officer shall, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, evaluate offers for any option quantities or periods contained in a solicitation when it has been determined prior to soliciting offers that the Government is likely to exercise the options. (See 17.208.) (b) (b) The contracting officer need not evaluate offers for any option quantities when it is determined that evaluation would not be in the best interests of the Government and this determination is approved at a level above the contracting officer. An example of a circumstance that may support a determination not to evaluate offers for option quantities is when there is a reasonable certainty that funds will be unavailable to permit exercise of the option.
49.603-5 Cost-reimbursement contracts-partial termination. No subsections found.
42.701 Definition. No subsections found.
28.202 Acceptability of corporate sureties. (a) (a) (b) (b) For contracts performed in a foreign country, sureties not appearing on Treasury Department Circular 570 are acceptable if the contracting officer determines that it is impracticable for the contractor to use Treasury listed sureties. (c) (c) Treasury issues supplements to Treasury Department Circular 570, notifying all Federal agencies of new approved corporate surety companies and the termination of the authority of any specific corporate surety to qualify as a surety on Federal bonds. Upon receipt of notification of termination of a company’s authority to qualify as a surety on Federal bonds, the contracting officer shall review the outstanding contracts and take action necessary to protect the Government, including, where appropriate, securing new bonds with acceptable sureties in lieu of outstanding bonds with the named company. (d) (d) Treasury Department Circular 570 may be obtained from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Surety Bond Branch, 3201 Pennsy Drive, Building E, Landover, MD 20785 or at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/fsreports/ref/suretyBnd/c570.htm.
45.602-4 Interagency property transfer costs. No subsections found.
25.900 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
29.402-3 Tax on certain foreign procurements. (a) (a) Insert the provision at 52.229-11, Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements—Notice and Representation, in solicitations, including solicitations using part  12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, unless one of the following exceptions applies: (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.229-12, Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements, in—
32.004 Contract performance in foreign countries. No subsections found.
25.1002 Use of foreign currency. (a) (a) Unless an international agreement or the WTO GPA (see 25.408(a)(4)) requires a specific currency, contracting officers must determine whether solicitations for contracts to be entered into and performed outside the United States will require submission of offers in U.S. currency or a specified foreign currency. In unusual circumstances, the contracting officer may permit submission of offers in other than a specified currency. (b) (b) To ensure a fair evaluation of offers, solicitations generally should require all offers to be priced in the same currency. However, if the solicitation permits submission of offers in other than a specified currency, the contracting officer must convert the offered prices to U.S. currency for evaluation purposes. The contracting officer must use the current market exchange rate from a commonly used source in effect as follows: (c) (c) If a contract is priced in foreign currency, the agency must ensure that adequate funds are available to cover currency fluctuations to avoid a violation of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1341, 1342, 1511-1519).
53.211 [Reserved] No subsections found.
15.407 Special cost or pricing areas. No subsections found.
9.109-3 Exception. No subsections found.
19.811-1 Sole source. (a) (a) The contract to be awarded by the agency to the SBA shall be prepared in accordance with agency procedures and in the same detail as would be required in a contract with a business concern. The contracting officer shall use the Standard Form 26 as the award form, except for construction contracts, in which case the Standard Form 1442 shall be used as required in 36.701(a). (b) (b) The contracting officer shall prepare the contract that the SBA will award to the 8(a) participant in accordance with agency procedures, as if awarding the contract directly to the 8(a) participant, except for the following: (c) (c) Except in procurements where the SBA will make advance payments to its 8(a) contractor, the agency contracting officer may, as an alternative to the procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection, use a single contract document for both the prime contract between the agency and the SBA and its 8(a) contractor. The single contract document shall contain the information in paragraphs (b) (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection. Appropriate blocks on the Standard Form (SF) 26 or 1442 will be asterisked and a continuation sheet appended as a tripartite agreement which includes the following: (d) (d) For acquisitions not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer may use the alternative procedures in paragraph (c) of this subsection with the appropriate simplified acquisition forms.
Subpart 24.1 - Protection of Individual Privacy No subsections found.
52.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
30.603-1 Required changes. (a) (a) General. Offerors shall state whether or not the award of a contract would require a change to an established cost accounting practice affecting existing contracts and subcontracts (see 52.230-1). The contracting officer shall notify the CFAO if the offeror states that a change in cost accounting practice would be required. (b) (b) CFAO responsibilities. Prior to making an equitable adjustment under the applicable paragraph (s) that address a required change at 52.230-2, Cost Accounting Standards; 52.230-3, Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices; or 52.230-5, Cost Accounting Standards-Educational Institution, the CFAO shall determine that- (c) (c) Notice and proposal preparation. (d) (d) Equitable adjustments for new or modified standards.
30.605 Processing noncompliances. (a) (a) General. Prior to making any contract price or cost adjustments under the applicable paragraph (s) addressing noncompliance at 52.230-2, 52.230-3, or 52.230-5, the CFAO shall determine that- (b) (b) Notice and determination. (c) (c) Correcting noncompliances. (d) (d) General dollar magnitude proposal content. The GDM proposal- (e) (e) General dollar magnitude proposal evaluation. The CFAO shall promptly evaluate the GDM proposal. If the cost impact is immaterial, the CFAO shall follow the requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Otherwise, the CFAO shall- (f) (f) Detailed cost-impact proposal. If the contractor is required to submit a DCI proposal, the CFAO shall promptly evaluate the DCI proposal and follow the procedures at 30.606 to negotiate and resolve the cost impact. The DCI proposal- (g) (g) Interest. The CFAO shall- (h) (h) Calculating cost impacts. The cost impact calculation shall- (i) (i) Remedies. If the contractor does not correct the noncompliance or submit the proposal required in paragraph (d) or (f) of this section within the specified time, or any extension granted by the CFAO, the CFAO shall follow the procedures at 30.604(i).
6.302-5 Authorized or required by statute. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Application. This authority may be used when statutes, such as the following, expressly authorize or require that acquisition be made from a specified source or through another agency: (c) (c) Limitations.
52.216-5 Price Redetermination-Prospective. (a) (a) General. The unit prices and the total price stated in this contract shall be periodically redetermined in accordance with this clause, except that- (b) (b) Definition. "Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance with part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract. (c) (c) Price redetermination periods. For the purpose of price redetermination, performance of this contract is divided into successive periods. The first period shall extend from the date of the contract to ________, (see Note(1)) and the second and each succeeding period shall extend for ________ [insert appropriate number] months from the end of the last preceding period, except that the parties may agree to vary the length of the final period. The first day of the second and each succeeding period shall be the effective date of price redetermination for that period. (d) (d) Data submission. (e) (e) Price redetermination. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the data required by paragraph (d) of this section, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor shall promptly negotiate to redetermine fair and reasonable prices for supplies that may be delivered or services that may be performed in the period following the effective date of price redetermination. (f) (f) Contract modifications. Each negotiated redetermination of prices shall be evidenced by a modification to this contract, signed by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer, stating the redetermined prices that apply during the redetermination period. (g) (g) Adjusting billing prices. Pending execution of the contract modification (see paragraph (f) of this section), the Contractor shall submit invoices or vouchers in accordance with the billing prices stated in this contract. If at any time it appears that the then-current billing prices will be substantially greater than the estimated final prices, or if the Contractor submits data showing that the redetermined price will be substantially greater than the current billing prices, the parties shall negotiate an appropriate decrease or increase in billing prices. Any billing price adjustment shall be reflected in a contract modification and shall not affect the redetermination of prices under this clause. After the contract modification for price redetermination is executed, the total amount paid or to be paid on all invoices or vouchers shall be adjusted to reflect the agreed-upon prices, and any requested additional payments, refunds, or credits shall be made promptly. (h) (h) Quarterly limitation on payments statement. This paragraph (h) applies only during periods for which firm prices have not been established. (i) (i) Subcontracts. No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost- basis. (j) (j) Disagreements. If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon redetermined prices for any price redetermination period within 60 days (or within such other period as the parties agree) after the date on which the data required by paragraph (d) of this section are to be submitted, the Contracting Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance with the Disputes clause. For the purpose of paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, and pending final settlement of the disagreement on appeal, by failure to appeal, or by agreement, this decision shall be treated as an executed contract modification. Pending final settlement, price redetermination for subsequent periods, if any, shall continue to be negotiated as provided in this clause. (k) (k) Termination. If this contract is terminated, prices shall continue to be established in accordance with this clause for (1) completed supplies and services accepted by the Government and (2) those supplies and services not terminated under a partial termination. All other elements of the termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable clauses of this contract.
31.205-18 Independent research and development and bid and proposal costs. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this subsection- (b) (b) Composition and allocation of costs. The requirements of 48 CFR 9904.420, Accounting for independent research and development costs and bid and proposal costs, are incorporated in their entirety and shall apply as follows- (c) (c) Allowability. Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this subsection, or as provided in agency regulations, costs for IR&D and B&P are allowable as indirect expenses on contracts to the extent that those costs are allocable and reasonable. (d) (d) Deferred IR&D costs. (e) (e) Cooperative arrangements.
22.405 [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.006-1 General. (a) (a) Under 10 U.S.C. 3806(j), the statutory authority implemented by this section is available to the Department of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; this statutory authority is not available to the United States Coast Guard. Under 41 U.S.C. 4506, this statutory authority is available to all agencies subject to Division C of subtitle I of title 41. (b) (b) 10 U.S.C. 3806(c) and 41 U.S.C. 4506 provide for a reduction or suspension of further payments to a contractor when the agency head determines there is substantial evidence that the contractor's request for advance, partial, or progress payments is based on fraud. This authority does not apply to commercial interim payments under subpart  32.2, or performance-based payments under subpart  32.10. (c) (c) The agency head may not delegate his or her responsibilities under these statutes below Level IV of the Executive Schedule. (d) (d) Authority to reduce or suspend payments under these statutes is in addition to other Government rights, remedies, and procedures. (e) (e) In accordance with these statutes, agency head determinations and decisions under this section may be made for an individual contract or any group of contracts affected by the fraud.
52.249-7 Termination (Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer). (a) (a) The Government may terminate this contract in whole or, from time to time, in part, for the Government’s convenience or because of the failure of the Contractor to fulfill the contract obligations. The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a Notice of Termination specifying the nature, extent, and effective date of the termination. Upon receipt of the notice, the Contractor shall- (b) (b) If the termination is for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price but shall allow no anticipated profit on unperformed services. (c) (c) If the termination is for failure of the Contractor to fulfill the contract obligations, the Government may complete the work by contract or otherwise and the Contractor shall be liable for any additional cost incurred by the Government. (d) (d) If, after termination for failure to fulfill contract obligations, it is determined that the Contractor had not failed, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be the same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of the Government. (e) (e) The rights and remedies of the Government provided in this clause are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.
52.222-23 Notice of Requirement	for Affirmative Action to Ensure Equal Employment Opportunity for	Construction. (a) (a) The	offeror’s attention is called to the Equal Opportunity clause and	the Affirmative Action Compliance Requirements for Construction	clause of this solicitation. (b) (b) The goals	for minority and female participation, expressed in percentage terms	for the Contractor’s aggregate workforce in each trade on all construction	work in the covered area, are as follows: (c) (c) The Contractor’s	compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, and the regulations	in 41 CFR 60-4 shall be based on (1)	its implementation of the Equal Opportunity clause, (2) specific	affirmative action obligations required by the clause entitled "Affirmative	Action Compliance Requirements for Construction," and (3) its efforts	to meet the goals. The hours of minority and female employment and	training must be substantially uniform throughout the length of	the contract, and in each trade. The Contractor shall make a good	faith effort to employ minorities and women evenly on each of its	projects. The transfer of minority or female employees or trainees	from Contractor to Contractor, or from project to project, for the	sole purpose of meeting the Contractor’s goals shall be a violation	of the contract, Executive Order 11246, as amended, and the regulations	in 41 CFR 60-4. Compliance with the	goals will be measured against the total work hours performed. (d) (d) The Contractor	shall provide written notification to the Deputy Assistant Secretary	for Federal Contract Compliance, U.S. Department of Labor, within	10 working days following award of any construction subcontract	in excess of $10,000 at any tier for construction work under the	contract resulting from this solicitation. The notification shall	list the- (e) (e) As used	in this Notice, and in any contract resulting from this solicitation,	the "covered area" is ___________ [Contracting Officer	shall insert description of the geographical areas where the contract	is to be performed, giving the state, county, and city].
Subpart 17.7 - Interagency Acquisitions: Acquisitions by Nondefense Agencies on Behalf of the Department of Defense No subsections found.
15.404-3 Subcontract pricing considerations. (a) (a) The contracting officer is responsible for the determination of a fair and reasonable price for the prime contract, including subcontracting costs. The contracting officer should consider whether a contractor or subcontractor has an approved purchasing system, has performed cost or price analysis of proposed subcontractor prices, or has negotiated the subcontract prices before negotiation of the prime contract, in determining the reasonableness of the prime contract price. This does not relieve the contracting officer from the responsibility to analyze the contractor’s submission, including subcontractor’s certified cost or pricing data. (b) (b) The prime contractor or subcontractor shall- (c) (c) Any contractor or subcontractor that is required to submit certified cost or pricing data also shall obtain and analyze certified cost or pricing data before awarding any subcontract, purchase order, or modification expected to exceed the certified cost or pricing data threshold, unless an exception in 15.403-1(b) applies to that action.
52.234-1 Industrial Resources Developed Under Title III, Defense Production Act. (a) (a) Definitions. "Title III industrial resource" means materials, services, processes, or manufacturing equipment (including the processes, technologies, and ancillary services for the use of such equipment) established or maintained under the authority of Title III, Defense Production Act (50 U.S.C. App.2091-2093). (b) (b) The Contractor shall refer any request from a Title III project contractor for testing and qualification of a Title III industrial resource to the Contracting Officer. (c) (c) Upon the direction of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall test Title III industrial resources for qualification. The Contractor shall provide the test results to the Defense Production Act Office, Title III Program, located at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio 45433-7739. (d) (d) When the Contracting Officer modifies the contract to direct testing pursuant to this clause, the Government will provide the Title III industrial resource to be tested and will make an equitable adjustment in the contract for the costs of testing and qualification of the Title III industrial resource. (e) (e) The Contractor agrees to insert the substance of this clause, including paragraph (e), in every subcontract issued in performance of this contract.
27.405-4 Other existing data. (a) (a) Except for existing works pursuant to 27.405-2 or commercial computer software pursuant to 27.405-3, no clause contained in this subpart is required to be included in- (b) (b) If the reproduction rights to the data are to be obtained in any contract of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, the rights shall be specifically set forth in the contract. No clause contained in this subpart is required to be included in contracts substantially for on-line data base services in the same form as they are normally available to the general public.
52.236-20 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.225-3 Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Components of foreign origin. Offerors may obtain from the Contracting Officer a list of foreign articles that the Contracting Officer will treat as domestic for this contract. (c) (c) Delivery of end products. 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American statute, provides a preference for domestic end products for supplies acquired for use in the United States. In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1907, the domestic content test of the Buy American statute is waived for an end product that is a COTS item (see 12.505(a)(1)), except that for an end product that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only to the iron and steel content of the end product, excluding COTS fasteners. Unless otherwise specified, these trade agreements apply to all items in the Schedule. The Contractor shall deliver under this contract only domestic end products except to the extent that, in its offer, it specified delivery of foreign end products in the provision entitled "Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate." If the Contractor specified in its offer that the Contractor would supply a Free Trade Agreement country end product (other than a Bahraini, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product) or an Israeli end product, then the Contractor shall supply a Free Trade Agreement country end product (other than a Bahraini, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product), an Israeli end product or, at the Contractor’s option, a domestic end product.
22.406-11 Contract terminations. (a) (a) The number of the terminated contract; (b) (b) The name and address of the terminated contractor or subcontractor; (c) (c) The name and address of the contractor or subcontractor, if any, who is to complete the work; (d) (d) The amount and number of the replacement contract, if any; and (e) (e) A description of the work.
42.1601 General. No subsections found.
26.102 Policy. No subsections found.
52.232-40 Providing Accelerated Payments to Small Business Subcontractors. (a) (a) (b) (b) The acceleration of payments under this clause does not provide any new rights under the Prompt Payment Act. (c) (c) Include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts with small business concerns, including subcontracts with small business concerns for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
Subpart 4.17 - Service Contracts Inventory No subsections found.
16.402-1 Cost incentives. (a) (a) Most incentive contracts include only cost incentives, which take the form of a profit or fee adjustment formula and are intended to motivate the contractor to effectively manage costs. No incentive contract may provide for other incentives without also providing a cost incentive (or constraint). (b) (b) Except for award-fee contracts (see 16.404 and 16.401(e)), incentive contracts include a target cost, a target profit or fee, and a profit or fee adjustment formula that (within the constraints of a price ceiling or minimum and maximum fee) provides that-
51.106 Title. (a) (a) Titleto all property acquired by the contractor under the contracting officer’s authorization shall vest in the parties as provided in the contract, unless specifically provided for otherwise. (b) (b) If contracts are with educational institutions and the Government Property clause at 52.245-1, AlternateII, is used, title to property having a unit acquisition cost of less than $5,000 shall vest in the contractor as provided in the clause. Agencies may provide higher thresholds, if appropriate.
46.802 Definition. No subsections found.
22.1018 Notification to contractors and employees. (a) (a) As soon as possible after contract award, inform the contractor of the labor standards requirements of the contract relating to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and of the contractor’s responsibilities under these requirements, unless it is clear that the contractor is fully informed. (b) (b) At the time of award, furnish the contractor Department of Labor Publication WH-1313, Notice to Employees Working on Government Contracts, for posting at a prominent and accessible place at the worksite before contract performance begins. The publication advises employees of the compensation (wages and fringe benefits) required to be paid or furnished under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and satisfies the notice requirements in paragraph (g) of the clause at 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards. (c) (c) Attach any applicable wage determination to Publication WH-1313.
16.601 Time-and-materials contracts. (a) (a) Definitions for the purposes of Time-and-Materials Contracts. (b) (b) Description. A time-and-materials contract provides for acquiring supplies or services on the basis of- (c) (c) Application. A time-and-materials contract may be used only when it is not possible at the time of placing the contract to estimate accurately the extent or duration of the work or to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of confidence. See 12.207(b) for the use of time-and-material contracts for certain commercial services. (d) (d) Limitations. A time-and-materials contract or order may be used only if- (e) (e) Post award requirements. Prior to an increase in the ceiling price of a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract or order, the contracting officer shall- (f) (f) Solicitation provisions.
7.201 [Reserved] No subsections found.
14.209 Cancellation of invitations before opening. (a) (a) The cancellation of an invitation for bids usually involves a loss of time, effort, and money spent by the Government and bidders. Invitations should not be cancelled unless cancellation is clearly in the public interest; e.g., (b) (b) When an invitation issued other than electronically is cancelled, bids that have been received shall be returned unopened to the bidders and notice of cancellation shall be sent to all prospective bidders to whom invitations were issued. When an invitation issued electronically is cancelled, a general notice of cancellation shall be posted electronically, the bids received shall not be viewed, and the bids shall be purged from primary and backup data storage systems. (c) (c) The notice of cancellation shall-(1) identify the invitation for bids by number and short title or subject matter, (2) briefly explain the reason the invitation is being cancelled, and (3) where appropriate, assure prospective bidders that they will be given an opportunity to bid on any resolicitation of bids or any future requirements for the type of supplies or services involved. Cancellations shall be recorded in accordance with 14.403(d).
19.1305 HUBZone set-aside procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer- (b) (b) To set aside an acquisition for competition restricted to HUBZone small business concerns, the contracting officer must have a reasonable expectation that- (c) (c) If the contracting officer receives only one acceptable offer from a HUBZone small business concern in response to a set aside, the contracting officer should make an award to that concern. If the contracting officer receives no acceptable offers from HUBZone small business concerns, the HUBZone set-aside shall be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid, set aside for small business concerns, as appropriate (see 19.203). (d) (d) The procedures at 19.202-1 and, at 19.402 apply to this section.
52.204-22 Alternative Line Item Proposal. (a) (a) The Government recognizes that the line items established in this solicitation may not conform to the Offeror’s practices. Failure to correct these issues can result in difficulties in acceptance of deliverables and processing payments. Therefore, the Offeror is invited to propose alternative line items for which bids, proposals, or quotes are requested in this solicitation to ensure that the resulting contract is economically and administratively advantageous to the Government and the Offeror. (b) (b) The Offeror may submit one or more additional proposals with alternative line items, provided that alternative line items are consistent with subpart  4.10 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. However, acceptance of an alternative proposal is a unilateral decision made solely at the discretion of the Government. Offers that do not comply with the line items specified in this solicitation may be determined to be nonresponsive or unacceptable.
32.304-7 Contract surety bonds and loan guarantees. (a) (a) Contract surety bonds are incompatible with the Government’s interests under guaranteed loans, unless the interests of the surety are subordinated to the guaranteed loan. (b) (b) If a substantial share of the contractor’s defense contracts are covered by surety bonds, or the amount of the bond is substantial in relation to the contractor’s net worth, the agency shall not authorize the guarantee of a loan on a bonded contract unless the surety enters into an agreement with the financing institution to subordinate the surety’s rights and claims in favor of the guaranteed loan. (c) (c) The agency approval of a guarantee for a loan involving relatively substantial subcontracts covered by surety bonds shall also depend on the establishment of a reasonable allocation agreement between the sureties and the financing institution. The agreement should give the financing institution the benefit, with regard to payments to be made on the contract, of the portion of its loans fairly attributable to expenditures made under the bonded subcontracts before notice of default.
17.802 Policy. (a) (a) The use of reverse auctions may be appropriate when market research indicates that— (b) (b) The reverse auction process is used to obtain pricing for an acquisition. When using the reverse auction process, contracting officers are still required to follow the acquisition policies and procedures ( e.g., those prescribed in subpart 8.4 or 16.5, or part 13 or 15), as appropriate for the particular acquisition. (c) (c) (d) (d) Contracting officers shall only use the services of a reverse auction service provider that— (e) (e) Only a contracting officer shall—
22.604-1 Statutory exemptions. (a) (a) Any item in those situations where the contracting officer is authorized by the express language of a statute to purchase "in the open market" generally (such as commercial products and commercial services, see part  12); or where a specific purchase is made under the conditions described in 6.302-2 in circumstances where immediate delivery is required by the public exigency. (b) (b) Perishables, including dairy, livestock, and nursery products. (c) (c) Agricultural or farm products processed for first sale by the original producers. (d) (d) Agricultural commodities or the products thereof purchased under contract by the Secretary of Agriculture.
37.104 Personal services contracts. (a) (a) A personal services contract is characterized by the employer-employee relationship it creates between the Government and the contractor’s personnel. The Government is normally required to obtain its employees by direct hire under competitive appointment or other procedures required by the civil service laws. Obtaining personal services by contract, rather than by direct hire, circumvents those laws unless Congress has specifically authorized acquisition of the services by contract. (b) (b) Agencies shall not award personal services contracts unless specifically authorized by statute (e.g., 5 U.S.C. 3109) to do so. (c) (c) (d) (d) The following descriptive elements should be used as a guide in assessing whether or not a proposed contract is personal in nature: (e) (e) When specific statutory authority for a personal service contract is cited, obtain the review and opinion of legal counsel. (f) (f) Personal services contracts for the services of individual experts or consultants are limited by the Classification Act. In addition, the Office of Personnel Management has established requirements which apply in acquiring the personal services of experts or consultants in this manner (e.g., benefits, taxes, conflicts of interest). Therefore, the contracting officer shall effect necessary coordination with the cognizant civilian personnel office.
9.308 Contract clauses. No subsections found.
9.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 53.3 - Forms Used in Acquisitions No subsections found.
45.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part prescribes policies and procedures for providing Government property to contractors; contractors’ management and use of Government property; and reporting, redistributing, and disposing of contractor inventory. (b) (b) It does not apply to-
22.1025 Ineligibility of violators. No subsections found.
50.103-7 Contract requirements. (a) (a) Pub. L. 85-804 and E.O. 10789	require that every contract entered into, amended, or modified under	this subpart  50.1 shall	contain— (b) (b) The authority	in 50.101-1(a) shall not	be used to omit from contracts, when otherwise required, the clauses	at 52.203-5, Covenant Against	Contingent Fees; 52.215-2,	Audit and Records-Negotiation; 52.222-4,	Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards-Overtime Compensation; 52.222-6, Construction	Wage Rate Requirements; 52.222-10,	Compliance With Copeland Act Requirements; 52.222-20, Contracts for	Materials, Supplies, Articles, and Equipment;52.222-26, Equal Opportunity;	and 52.232-23, Assignment	of Claims.
1.107 Certifications. (a) (a) The certification requirement is specifically imposed by statute; or (b) (b) Written justification for such certification is provided to the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy by the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council, and the Administrator approves in writing the inclusion of such certification requirement.
46.710 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) The contracting officer may insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.246-20, Warranty of Services, in solicitations and contracts for services when a fixed-price contract for services is contemplated and the use of warranty clause has been approved under agency procedures; unless a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.246-19, Warranty of Systems and Equipment under Performance Specifications or Design Criteria, has been used. (e) (e)
13.302-4 Termination or cancellation of purchase orders. (a) (a) If a purchase order that has been accepted in writing by the contractor is to be terminated, the contracting officer shall process the termination in accordance with- (b) (b) If a purchase order that has not been accepted in writing by the contractor is to be canceled, the contracting officer shall notify the contractor in writing that the purchase order has been canceled, request the contractor’s written acceptance of the cancellation, and proceed as follows:
Subpart 42.1 - Contract Audit Services No subsections found.
52.243-3 Changes-Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hours. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following: (b) (b) If any change causes an increase or decrease in any hourly rate, the ceiling price, or the time required for performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by the order, or otherwise affects any other terms and conditions of this contract, the Contracting Officer will make an equitable adjustment in any one or more of the following and will modify the contract accordingly: (c) (c) The Contractor shall assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract. (d) (d) Failure to agree to any adjustment will be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause excuses the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.
14.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) The basic requirements of contracting for supplies and services (including construction) by sealed bidding; (b) (b) The information to be included in the solicitation (invitation for bids); (c) (c) Procedures concerning the submission of bids; (d) (d) Requirements for opening and evaluating bids and awarding contracts; and (e) (e) Procedures for two-step sealed bidding.
49.501 General. No subsections found.
31.202 Direct costs. (a) (a) No final cost objective shall have allocated to it as a direct cost any cost, if other costs incurred for the same purpose in like circumstances have been included in any indirect cost pool to be allocated to that or any other final cost objective. Direct costs of the contract shall be charged directly to the contract. All costs specifically identified with other final cost objectives of the contractor are direct costs of those cost objectives and are not to be charged to the contract directly or indirectly. (b) (b) For reasons of practicality, the contractor may treat any direct cost of a minor dollar amount as an indirect cost if the accounting treatment-
23.002 Policy. No subsections found.
Subpart 4.1 - Contract Execution No subsections found.
39.204 Exceptions. (a) (a) The requirements in 39.203 do not apply to acquisitions for— (b) (b) The contracting officer shall receive, as a part of the requirements documentation, written confirmation from the requiring activity that an exception, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, applies to the ICT supply or service (see 7.105(b)(5)(iv)). This documentation shall be maintained in the contract file.
47.305-2 Solicitations f.o.b. origin and f.o.b. destination-lowest overall cost. (a) (a) Solicitations, when appropriate, shall specify that offers may be f.o.b. origin, f.o.b. destination, or both; and that they will be evaluated on the basis of the lowest overall cost to the Government. (b) (b) When offers are solicited on the basis of both f.o.b. origin and f.o.b. destination, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations the provision at 52.247-45, F.o.b. Origin and/or F.o.b. Destination Evaluation.
32.409-2 Recommendation for disapproval. (a) (a) The items prescribed in 32.409-1(a), (b), and (c); and (b) (b) The recommendation for disapproval and the reasons.
52.252-1 Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference. No subsections found.
53.216-1 Delivery orders and orders under basic ordering agreements (OF 347). No subsections found.
15.407-2 Make-or-buy programs. (a) (a) General. The prime contractor is responsible for managing contract performance, including planning, placing, and administering subcontracts as necessary to ensure the lowest overall cost and technical risk to the Government. When make-or-buy programs are required, the Government may reserve the right to review and agree on the contractor’s make-or-buy program when necessary to ensure negotiation of reasonable contract prices, satisfactory performance, or implementation of socioeconomic policies. Consent to subcontracts and review of contractors’ purchasing systems are separate actions covered in part  44. (b) (b) Definition. "Make item," as used in this subsection, means an item or work effort to be produced or performed by the prime contractor or its affiliates, subsidiaries, or divisions. (c) (c) Acquisitions requiring make-or-buy programs. (d) (d) Solicitation requirements. When prospective contractors are required to submit proposed make-or-buy programs, the solicitation shall include- (e) (e) Program requirements. To support a make-or-buy program, the following information shall be supplied by the contractor in its proposal: (f) (f) Evaluation, negotiation, and agreement. Contracting officers shall evaluate and negotiate proposed make-or-buy programs as soon as practicable after their receipt and before contract award. (g) (g) Incorporating make-or-buy programs in contracts. The contracting officer may incorporate the make-or-buy program in negotiated contracts for-
11.201 Identification and availability of specifications. (a) (a)  Solicitations citing requirements documents listed in the General Services Administration (GSA) Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, available on the DoD Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System (ASSIST) website, or listed in other agency index shall identify each document’s approval date and the dates of any applicable amendments and revisions. Do not use general identification references, such as "the issue in effect on the date of the solicitation." Contracting offices will not normally furnish these cited documents with the solicitation, except when- (b) (b) Contracting offices shall clearly identify in the solicitation any pertinent documents not listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions or ASSIST. Such documents shall be furnished with the solicitation or specific instructions shall be furnished for obtaining or examining such documents. (c) (c) When documents refer to other documents, such references shall– (d) (d) (e) (e)  Agencies may purchase some nongovernment standards, including voluntary consensus standards, from the National Technical Information Service’s Fedworld Information Network. Agencies may also obtain nongovernment standards from the standards developing organization responsible for the preparation, publication, or maintenance of the standard, or from an authorized document reseller. The National Institute of Standards and Technology can assist agencies in identifying sources for, and content of, nongovernment standards. DoD activities may obtain from the Defense Standardization Program Office those nongovernment standards, including voluntary consensus standards, adopted for use by defense activities.
14.503-1 Step one. (a) (a) Requests for technical proposals shall be synopsized in accordance with part  5. The request must include, as a minimum, the following: (b) (b) Information on delivery or performance requirements may be of assistance to bidders in determining whether or not to submit a proposal and may be included in the request. The request shall also indicate that the information is not binding on the Government and that the actual delivery or performance requirements will be contained in the invitation issued under step two. (c) (c) Upon receipt, the contracting officer shall- (d) (d) The contracting officer shall establish a time period for evaluating technical proposals. The period may vary with the complexity and number of proposals involved. However, the evaluation should be completed quickly. (e) (e) (f) (f) (g) (g) When a technical proposal is found unacceptable (either initially or after clarification), the contracting officer shall promptly notify the offeror of the basis of the determination and that a revision of the proposal will not be considered. Upon written request, the contracting officer shall debrief unsuccessful offerors (see 15.505 and 15.506). (h) (h) Late technical proposals are governed by 15.208(b), (c), and (f). (i) (i) If it is necessary to discontinue two-step sealed bidding, the contracting officer shall include a statement of the facts and circumstances in the contract file. Each offeror shall be notified in writing. When step one results in no acceptable technical proposal or only one acceptable technical proposal, the acquisition may be continued by negotiation.
8.607 Performance as a subcontractor. (a) (a) A solicitation provision requiring a potential contractor to offer to make use of FPI supplies or services; (b) (b) A contract specification requiring the contractor to use specific supplies or services (or classes of supplies or services) offered by FPI; or (c) (c) Any contract modification directing the use of FPI supplies or services.
42.1500 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.235 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.226-2 Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) Representation. The offeror represents that it—
52.222-59 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
22.1008-1 Obtaining wage determinations. (a) (a) Contracting officers may obtain most prevailing wage determinations using the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website. Contracting officers may also use the Department of Labor’s e98 electronic process, located on the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website, to request a wage determination directly from the Department of Labor. If the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov database does not contain the applicable prevailing wage determination for a contract action, the contracting officer must use the e98 process to request a wage determination from the Department of Labor. (b) (b) In using the e98 process to obtain prevailing wage determinations, contracting officers shall provide as complete and accurate information on the e98 as possible. Contracting officers shall ensure that the email address submitted on an e98 request is accurate. (c) (c) The contracting officer must anticipate the amount of time required to gather the information necessary to obtain a wage determination, including sufficient time, if necessary, to contact the Department of Labor to request wage determinations that are not available through use of the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov . (d) (d) Although the Wage Determinations at SAM.gov website provides assistance to the contracting agency to select the correct wage determination, the contracting agency remains responsible for the wage determination selected. If the contracting agency has used the e98 process, the Department of Labor will respond to the contracting agency based on the information provided on the e98. The contracting agency may rely upon the Department of Labor response as the correct wage determination for the contract. (e) (e) To obtain the applicable wage determination for each contract action, the contracting officer shall determine the following information concerning the service employees expected to be employed by the contractor and any subcontractors in performing the contract: (f) (f) If the contracting officer has questions regarding the procedures for obtaining a wage determination, or questions regarding the selection of a wage determination, the contracting officer should request assistance from the agency labor advisor.
34.003 Responsibilities. (a) (a) As required by A-109, the agency head or designee shall establish written procedures for its implementation. (b) (b) The agency procedures shall identify the key decision points of each major system acquisition and the agency official(s) for making those decisions. (c) (c) Systems acquisitions normally designated as major are those programs that, as determined by the agency head, (1) are directed at and critical to fulfilling an agency mission need, (2) entail allocating relatively large resources for the particular agency, and (3) warrant special management attention, including specific agency-head decisions. The agency procedures may establish additional criteria, as specified in A-109, for designating major programs system acquisitions.
26.203 Transition of work. (a) (a) In anticipation of potential emergency response requirements, agencies involved in response planning should consider awarding emergency response contracts before a major disaster or emergency occurs to ensure immediate response and relief. These contracts should be structured to respond to immediate emergency response needs, and should not be structured in any way that may inhibit the transition of emergency response work to local firms (e.g., unnecessarily broad scopes of work or long periods of performance). (b) (b) 42U.S.C.5 150(b)(2) requires that agencies performing response, relief, and reconstruction activities transition to local firms any work performed under contracts in effect on the date on which the President declares a major disaster or emergency, unless the head of such agency determines in writing that it is not feasible or practicable. This determination may be made on an individual contract or class basis. The written determination shall be prepared within a reasonable time given the circumstances of the emergency. (c) (c) In effecting the transition, agencies are not required to terminate or renegotiate existing contracts. Agencies should transition the work at the earliest practical opportunity after consideration of the following: (d) (d) The agency shall transition the work to local firms using the local area set-aside identified in 26.202-1.
52.247-34 F.o.b. Destination. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. destination," as used in this clause, means- (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
52.204-6 Unique Entity Identifier. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this provision- (b) (b) The Offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "Unique Entity Identifier" followed by the unique entity identifier that identifies the Offeror's name and address exactly as stated in the offer. The Offeror also shall enter its EFT indicator, if applicable. (c) (c) If the Offeror does not have a unique entity identifier, it should contact the entity designated at www.sam.gov for establishment of the unique entity identifier directly to obtain one. The Offeror should be prepared to provide the following information:
52.223-14 [Reserved] No subsections found.
33.214 Alternative dispute resolution (ADR). (a) (a) The objective of using ADR procedures is to increase the opportunity for relatively inexpensive and expeditious resolution of issues in controversy. Essential elements of ADR include- (b) (b) If the contracting officer rejects a contractor’s request for ADR proceedings, the contracting officer shall provide the contractor a written explanation citing one or more of the conditions in 5 U.S.C. 572(b) or such other specific reasons that ADR procedures are inappropriate for the resolution of the dispute. In any case where a contractor rejects a request of an agency for ADR proceedings, the contractor shall inform the agency in writing of the contractor’s specific reasons for rejecting the request. (c) (c) ADR procedures may be used at any time that the contracting officer has authority to resolve the issue in controversy. If a claim has been submitted, ADR procedures may be applied to all or a portion of the claim. When ADR procedures are used subsequent to the issuance of a contracting officer’s final decision, their use does not alter any of the time limitations or procedural requirements for filing an appeal of the contracting officer’s final decision and does not constitute a reconsideration of the final decision. (d) (d) When appropriate, a neutral person may be used to facilitate resolution of the issue in controversy using the procedures chosen by the parties. (e) (e) The confidentiality of ADR proceedings shall be protected consistent with 5 U.S.C. 574. (f) (f) (g) (g) Binding arbitration, as an ADR procedure, may be agreed to only as specified in agency guidelines. Such guidelines shall provide advice on the appropriate use of binding arbitration and when an agency has authority to settle an issue in controversy through binding arbitration.
40.201 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 36.2 - Special Aspects of Contracting for Construction No subsections found.
3.1003 Requirements. (a) (a) Contractor requirements. (b) (b) Notification of possible contractor violation. If the contracting officer is notified of possible contractor violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in Title 18 U.S.C.; or a violation of the civil False Claims Act, the contracting officer shall- (c) (c) Fraud Hotline Poster.
52.215-4 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.122 Advance payments. No subsections found.
17.107 Options. No subsections found.
15.204-4 Part III-List of Documents, Exhibits, and Other Attachments. No subsections found.
Part 11 - Describing Agency Needs No subsections found.
22.1406 Complaint procedures. (a) (a) Following agency procedures, the contracting office shall forward any complaints received about the administration of the Act to- (b) (b) The OFCCP shall institute investigation of each complaint and shall be responsible for developing a complete case record.
29.401-2 Construction contracts performed in North Carolina. No subsections found.
Subpart 25.9 - Customs and Duties No subsections found.
52.208 [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.103 Performance and payment bonds for other than construction contracts. No subsections found.
53.110 Continuation sheets. No subsections found.
32.305 Loan guarantees for terminated contracts. (a) (a) The purpose of guaranteed loans; i.e., to provide for financing based on the borrower’s recoverable investment in defense production contracts, may also apply to contracts that have been terminated (partially or totally) for the convenience of the Government. Guaranteed loans also may be made before such termination if it is known that termination of particular contracts for the convenience of the Government is about to occur. These loans are expected to provide necessary financing pending termination settlements and payments. They may also finance continuing performance of defense production contracts that are eligible for guaranteed loans. (b) (b) The procedure for such guarantees is substantially the same as that outlined in 32.304, except that certificates of eligibility are not required for (1) contracts that have been totally terminated or (2) the terminated portion of contracts that have been partially terminated. The agency shall take precautions necessary to avoid Government losses and to ensure the loans will be self-liquidating from the proceeds of defense production contracts. (c) (c) Loan guarantees for contract termination financing shall not be provided before specific contract terminations are certain.
2.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part- (b) (b) Other parts, subparts, and sections of this regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) may define other words or terms and those definitions only apply to the part, subpart, or section where the word or term is defined.
36.602 Selection of firms for architect-engineer contracts. No subsections found.
Subpart 16.1 - Selecting Contract Types No subsections found.
52.248-1 Value Engineering. (a) (a) General. The Contractor is encouraged to develop, prepare, and submit value engineering change proposals (VECP’s) voluntarily. The Contractor shall share in any net acquisition savings realized from accepted VECP’s, in accordance with the incentive sharing rates in paragraph (f) of this clause. (b) (b) Definitions. (c) (c) VECP preparation. As a minimum, the Contractor shall include in each VECP the information described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this clause. If the proposed change is affected by contractually required configuration management or similar procedures, the instructions in those procedures relating to format, identification, and priority assignment shall govern VECP preparation. The VECP shall include the following: (d) (d) Submission. The Contractor shall submit VECP’s to the Contracting Officer, unless this contract states otherwise. If this contract is administered by other than the contracting office, the Contractor shall submit a copy of the VECP simultaneously to the Contracting Officer and to the Administrative Contracting Officer. (e) (e) Government action. (f) (f) Sharing rates. If a VECP is accepted, the Contractor shall share in net acquisition savings according to the percentages shown in the table below. The percentage paid the Contractor depends upon- (g) (g) Calculating net acquisition savings. (h) (h) Contract adjustment. The modification accepting the VECP (or a subsequent modification issued as soon as possible after any negotiations are completed) shall- (i) (i) Concurrent and future contract savings. (j) (j) Collateral savings. If a VECP is accepted, the Contracting Officer will increase the instant contract amount, as specified in paragraph (h)(5) of this clause, by a rate from 20 to 100 percent, as determined by the Contracting Officer, of any projected collateral savings determined to be realized in a typical year of use after subtracting any Government costs not previously offset. However, the Contractor’s share of collateral savings will not exceed the contract’s firm-fixed-price, target price, target cost, or estimated cost, at the time the VECP is accepted, or $100,000, whichever is greater. The Contracting Officer will be the sole determiner of the amount of collateral savings. (k) (k) Relationship to other incentives. Only those benefits of an accepted VECP not rewardable under performance, design-to-cost (production unit cost, operating and support costs, reliability and maintainability), or similar incentives shall be rewarded under this clause. However, the targets of such incentives affected by the VECP shall not be adjusted because of VECP acceptance. If this contract specifies targets but provides no incentive to surpass them, the value engineering sharing shall apply only to the amount of achievement better than target. (l) (l) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include an appropriate value engineering clause in any subcontract-valued at or above the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101 on the date of subcontract award, and may include one in subcontracts of lesser value. In calculating any adjustment in this contract’s price for instant contract savings (or negative instant contract savings), the Contractor’s allowable development and implementation costs shall include any subcontractor’s allowable development and implementation costs, and any value engineering incentive payments to a subcontractor, clearly resulting from a VECP accepted by the Government under this contract. The Contractor may choose any arrangement for subcontractor value engineering incentive payments, provided, that the payments shall not reduce the Government’s share of concurrent or future contract savings or collateral savings. (m) (m) Data. The Contractor may restrict the Government’s right to use any part of a VECP or the supporting data by marking the following legend on the affected parts:
19.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part implements the acquisition-related sections of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631, et seq.), applicable sections of the Armed Services Procurement Act (10 U.S.C. 3063–3064 and 3203), 41 U.S.C. 3104, and Executive Order 12138, May 18, 1979. It covers— (b) (b)
27.404-2 Limited rights data and restricted computer software. (a) (a) General. The basic clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General, enables the contractor to protect qualifying limited rights data and restricted computer software by withholding the data from the Government and instead delivering form, fit, and function data. (b) (b) Alternate definition of limited rights data. For contracts that do not require the development, use, or delivery of items, components, or processes that are intended to be acquired by or for the Government, an agency may adopt the alternate definition of limited rights data set forth in Alternate I to the clause at 52.227-14. The alternate definition does not require that the data pertain to items, components, or processes developed at private expense; but rather that the data were developed at private expense and embody a trade secret or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged. (c) (c) Protection of limited rights data specified for delivery. (d) (d) Protection of restricted computer software specified for delivery.
52.209-11 Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law. (a) (a) As required by sections 744 and 745 of Division E of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235), and similar provisions, if contained in subsequent appropriations acts, the Government will not enter into a contract with any corporation that– (b) (b) The Offeror represents that–
31.205-51 Costs of alcoholic beverages. No subsections found.
9.108-5 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) Include the provision at 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-Representation, in each solicitation for the acquisition of products or services (including construction); and (b) (b) Include the clause at 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations, in each solicitation and contract for the acquisition of products or services (including construction).
4.101 Contracting officer’s signature. No subsections found.
53.242-1 Novation and change-of-name agreements (SF 30). No subsections found.
48.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
15.501 Definition. No subsections found.
Subpart 25.7 - Prohibited Sources No subsections found.
52.206 [Reserved] No subsections found.
4.1501 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.1408 Contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.222-36, Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities, in solicitations and contracts that exceed or are expected to exceed $15,000, except when- (b) (b) If the Director of OFCCP or agency head waives one or more (but not all) of the terms of the clause in accordance with 22.1403(a) or 22.1403(b), use the basic clause with its Alternate I.
22.503 Policy. (a) (a) Executive Order (E.O.) 14063, Use of Project Labor Agreements for Federal Construction Projects, requires agencies to use project labor agreements in large-scale construction projects to promote economy and efficiency in the administration and completion of Federal construction projects. (b) (b) When awarding a contract in connection with a large-scale construction project (see 22.502), agencies shall require use of project labor agreements for contractors and subcontractors engaged in construction on the project, unless an exception at 22.504(d) applies. (c) (c) An agency may require the use of a project labor agreement on projects where the total cost to the Federal Government is less than that for a large-scale construction project, if appropriate. (d) (d) For indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts the use of a project labor agreement may be required on an order-by-order basis rather than for the entire contract. For an order at or above $35 million an agency shall require the use of a project labor agreement unless an exception applies. See 22.504(d)(3) and 22.505(b)(3).
Subpart 49.3 - Additional Principles for Cost-Reimbursement Contracts Terminated for Convenience No subsections found.
17.109 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.217-2, Cancellation Under Multi-year Contracts, in solicitations and contracts when a multi-year contract is contemplated. (b) (b) Economic price adjustment clauses. Economic price adjustment clauses are adaptable to multi-year contracting needs. When the period of production is likely to warrant a labor and material costs contingency in the contract price, the contracting officer should normally use an economic price adjustment clause (see 16.203). When contracting for services, the contracting officer-
52.217-3 Evaluation Exclusive of Options. No subsections found.
1.603-1 General. No subsections found.
49.602-3 Schedule of accounting information. No subsections found.
22.1601 Definitions. No subsections found.
28.304 Risk-pooling arrangements. No subsections found.
49.111 Review of proposed settlements. No subsections found.
52.204-8 Annual Representations and Certifications. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically in SAM website accessed through https://www.sam.gov. After reviewing the SAM information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.
32.102 Description of contract financing methods. (a) (a) Advance payments are advances of money by the Government to a prime contractor before, in anticipation of, and for the purpose of complete performance under one or more contracts. They are expected to be liquidated from payments due to the contractor incident to performance of the contracts. Since they are not measured by performance, they differ from partial, progress, or other payments based on the performance or partial performance of a contract. Advance payments may be made to prime contractors for the purpose of making advances to subcontractors. (b) (b) Progress payments based on costs are made on the basis of costs incurred by the contractor as work progresses under the contract. This form of contract financing does not include- (c) (c) Loan guarantees are made by Federal Reserve banks, on behalf of designated guaranteeing agencies, to enable contractors to obtain financing from private sources under contracts for the acquisition of supplies or services for the national defense. (d) (d) Payments for accepted supplies and services that are only a part of the contract requirements (i.e., partial deliveries) are authorized under 41 U.S.C. chapter 45 and 10 U.S.C. chapter 277. In accordance with 5 CFR 1315.4(k), agencies must pay for partial delivery of supplies or partial performance of services unless specifically prohibited by the contract. Although payments for partial deliveries generally are treated as a method of payment and not as a method of contract financing, using partial delivery payments can assist contractors to participate in contracts without, or with minimal, contract financing. When appropriate, contract statements of work and pricing arrangements must permit acceptance and payment for discrete portions of the work, as soon as accepted (see 32.906(c)). (e) (e) (f) (f) Performance-based payments are contract financing payments made on the basis of-
52.222-57 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
Part 22 - Application of Labor Laws to Government Acquisitions No subsections found.
52.232-34 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-Other than System for Award Management. (a) (a) Method of payment. (b) (b) Mandatory submission of Contractor's EFT information. (c) (c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR Part 210. (d) (d) Suspension of payment. (e) (e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. (f) (f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System. (g) (g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall provide the EFT information required by paragraph (j) of this clause to the designated office, and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause. (h) (h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information provided by the Contractor’s financial agent. (i) (i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address in the contract. (j) (j) EFT information. The Contractor shall provide the following information to the designated office. The Contractor may supply this data for this or multiple contracts (see paragraph (b) of this clause). The Contractor shall designate a single financial agent per contract capable of receiving and processing the EFT information using the EFT methods described in paragraph (c) of this clause.
52.242-17 Government Delay of Work. (a) (a) If the performance of all or any part of the work of this contract is delayed or interrupted (1)by an act of the Contracting Officer in the administration of this contract that is not expressly or impliedly authorized by this contract, or (2)by a failure of the Contracting Officer to act within the time specified in this contract, or within a reasonable time if not specified, an adjustment (excluding profit) shall be made for any increase in the cost of performance of this contract caused by the delay or interruption and the contract shall be modified in writing accordingly. Adjustment shall also be made in the delivery or performance dates and any other contractual term or condition affected by the delay or interruption. However, no adjustment shall be made under this clause for any delay or interruption to the extent that performance would have been delayed or interrupted by any other cause, including the fault or negligence of the Contractor, or for which an adjustment is provided or excluded under any other term or condition of this contract. (b) (b) A claim under this clause shall not be allowed-
28.102-1 General. (a) (a) 40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter III, Bonds (formerly known as the Miller Act), requires performance and payment bonds for any construction contract exceeding $150,000, except that this requirement may be waived- (b) (b) (c) (c) The contractor shall furnish all bonds or alternative payment protection, including any necessary reinsurance agreements, before receiving a notice to proceed with the work or being allowed to start work.
18.111 Oral requests for proposals. No subsections found.
43.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
16.406 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.216-16, Incentive Price Revision-Firm Target, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price incentive (firm target) contract is contemplated. If the contract calls for supplies or services to be ordered under a provisioning document or Government option and the prices are to be subject to the incentive price revision under the clause, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I. (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.216-17, Incentive Price Revision-Successive Targets, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price incentive (successive targets) contract is contemplated. If the contract calls for supplies or services to be ordered under a provisioning document or Government option and the prices are to be subject to incentive price revision under the clause, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I. (c) (c) The clause at 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment, is prescribed in 16.307(a) for insertion in solicitations and contracts when a cost-plus-incentive-fee contract or a cost-plus-award-fee contract is contemplated. (d) (d) The clause at 52.216-10, Incentive Fee, is prescribed in 16.307(d) for insertion in solicitations and contracts when a cost-plus-incentive-fee contract is contemplated. (e) (e) Insert an appropriate award-fee clause in solicitations and contracts when an award-fee contract is contemplated, provided that the clause-
29.402 Foreign contracts. No subsections found.
47.305-17 Returnable cylinders. No subsections found.
3.501 Buying-in. No subsections found.
12.101 Policy. (a) (a) Conduct market research to determine whether commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items are available that could meet the agency’s requirements; (b) (b) Acquire commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items when they are available to meet the needs of the agency; and (c) (c) Require prime contractors and subcontractors at all tiers to incorporate, to the maximum extent practicable, commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental items as components of items supplied to the agency.
52.204-11 [Reserved] No subsections found.
1.109 Statutory acquisition–related dollar thresholds-adjustment for inflation. (a) (a) 41 U.S.C. 1908 requires that the FAR Council periodically adjust all statutory acquisition-related dollar thresholds in the FAR for inflation, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. This adjustment is calculated every 5 years, starting in October 2005, using the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), and supersedes the applicability of any other provision of law that provides for the adjustment of such acquisition-related dollar thresholds. (b) (b) The statute defines an acquisition-related dollar threshold as a dollar threshold that is specified in law as a factor in defining the scope of the applicability of a policy, procedure, requirement, or restriction provided in that law to the procurement of supplies or services by an executive agency, as determined by the FAR Council. (c) (c) The statute does not permit escalation of acquisition-related dollar thresholds established by: (d) (d) The statute, as amended by section 821 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Pub. L. 115-91), requires the adjustment described in paragraph (a) of this section be applied to contracts and subcontracts without regard to the date of award of the contract or subcontract. Therefore, if a threshold is adjusted for inflation as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, then the changed threshold applies throughout the remaining term of the contract, unless there is a subsequent threshold adjustment. (e) (e) A matrix showing calculation of the most recent escalation adjustments of statutory acquisition-related dollar thresholds is available via the Internet at http://www.regulations.gov (search FAR Case 2019-013, open the docket folder, and go to the supporting documents file).
19.705-3 Preparing the solicitation. No subsections found.
25.103 Exceptions. (a) (a) Public interest. The head of the agency may make a determination that domestic preference would be inconsistent with the public interest. This exception applies when an agency has an agreement with a foreign government that provides a blanket exception to the Buy American statute. (b) (b) Nonavailability. The Buy American statute does not apply with respect to articles, materials, or supplies if articles, materials, or supplies of the class or kind to be acquired, either as end items or components, are not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities and of a satisfactory quality. (c) (c) Unreasonable cost. The contracting officer may determine that the cost of a domestic end product would be unreasonable, in accordance with 25.106 and subpart  25.5. (d) (d) Resale. The contracting officer may purchase foreign end products specifically for commissary resale. (e) (e) Information technology that is a commercial product. The restriction on purchasing foreign end products does not apply to the acquisition of information technology that is a commercial product, when using fiscal year 2004 or subsequent fiscal year funds (section 535(a) of Division F, Title V, Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004, and similar sections in subsequent appropriations acts).
13.106-2 Evaluation of quotations or offers. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Evaluation procedures.
37.303 Payments. (a) (a) The contract may provide that the- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall consider the usefulness to the Government of all salvageable property. Any of the property that is more useful to the Government than its value as salvage to the contractor should be expressly designated in the contract for retention by the Government. The contracting officer shall determine the fair market value of any property not so designated, since the contractor will get title to this property, and its value will therefore be important in determining what payment, if any, shall be made to the contractor and whether additional compensation will be made if the contract is terminated.
4.804 Closeout of contract files. No subsections found.
9.306 Solicitation requirements. (a) (a) Provide, in the circumstance where the contractor is to be responsible for the first article approval testing- (b) (b) Provide, in the circumstance where the Government is to be responsible for the first article approval testing- (c) (c) Inform offerors that the requirement may be waived when supplies identical or similar to those called for have previously been delivered by the offeror and accepted by the Government (see 52.209-3(h) and 52.209-4(i)); (d) (d) Permit the submission of alternative offers, one including testing and approval and the other excluding testing and approval (if eligible under paragraph (c) of this section); (e) (e) State clearly the first article’s relationship to the contract quantity (see paragraph (e) of the clause at 52.209-3, First Article Approval-Contractor Testing, or 52.209-4, First Article Approval-Government Testing); (f) (f) Contain a delivery schedule for the production quantity (see 11.403). The delivery schedule may- (g) (g) Provide for the submission of contract numbers, if any, to document the offeror’s eligibility under paragraph (c) of this section; (h) (h) State whether the approved first article will serve as a manufacturing standard; (i) (i) Include, when the Government is responsible for first article testing, the Government’s estimated testing costs as a factor for use in evaluating offers (when appropriate); and (j) (j) Inform offerors that the prices for first articles and first article tests in relation to production quantities shall not be materially unbalanced (see 15.404-1(g)) if first article test items or tests are to be separately priced.
36.212 Preconstruction orientation. (a) (a) The contracting officer will inform the successful offeror of significant matters of interest, including- (b) (b) As appropriate, the contracting officer may issue an explanatory letter or conduct a preconstruction conference. (c) (c) If a preconstruction conference is to be held, the contracting officer shall-
53.236-2 Architect-engineer services (SF’s 252 and 330). (a) (a) SF 252 (Rev.10/23), Architect-Engineer Contract. SF 252 is prescribed for use in awarding fixed-price contracts for architect-engineer services, as specified in 36.702(a). (b) (b) SF 330 (Rev. Jul 2021), Architect-Engineer Qualifications . SF 330 is prescribed for use in obtaining information from architect-engineer firms regarding their professional qualifications, as specified in 36.702(b)(1) and (b)(2).
9.110-2 Authority No subsections found.
4.804-4 Physically completed contracts. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a contract is considered to be physically completed when- (b) (b) Rental, use, and storage agreements are considered to be physically completed when-
22.1012-1 Prevailing wage determinations. (a) (a) (b) (b) The following shall apply when contracting by sealed bidding: a revised prevailing wage determination shall not be effective if it is received by the contracting agency less than 10 days before the opening of bids, and the contracting officer finds that there is not reasonable time to incorporate the revision in the solicitation. (c) (c) For contractual actions other than sealed bidding, a revised prevailing wage determination received by the contracting agency after award of a new contract or a modification as specified in 22.1007(b) shall not be effective provided that the start of performance is within 30 days of the award or the specified modification. If the contract does not specify a start of performance date which is within 30 days of the award or the specified modification, and if contract performance does not commence within 30 days of the award or the specified modification, any revision received by the contracting agency not less than 10 days before commencement of the work shall be effective. (d) (d) If the contracting officer has submitted an e98 to the Department of Labor requesting a prevailing wage determination and has not received a response within 10 days, the contracting officer shall contact the Wage and Hour Division by telephone to determine when the wage determination can be expected. (The telephone number is provided on the e98 website.)
25.703-3 Prohibition on contracting with entities that export sensitive technology to Iran. (a) (a) The head of an executive agency may not enter into or extend a contract for the procurement of goods or services with a person that exports certain sensitive technology to Iran, as determined by the President, and has an active exclusion in the System for Award Management at http://www.sam.gov (22 U.S.C. 8515). (b) (b) Each offeror must represent that it does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran. (c) (c) Exception for trade agreements. The representation requirement of paragraph (b) of this subsection does not apply if the acquisition is subject to trade agreements and the offeror certifies that all the offered products are designated country end products or designated country construction material (see subpart 25.4).
52.241-4 Change in Class of Service. (a) (a) In the event of a change in the class of service, such service shall be provided at the Contractor’s lowest available rate schedule applicable to the class of service furnished. (b) (b) Where the Contractor does not have on file with the regulatory body approved rate schedules applicable to services provided, no clause in this contract shall preclude the parties from negotiating a rate schedule applicable to the class of service furnished.
14.207 Pre-bid conference. No subsections found.
22.1016 Statement of equivalent rates for Federal hires. (a) (a) The statement required under the clause at 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires, (see 22.1006(b)) shall set forth those wage rates and fringe benefits that would be paid by the contracting activity to the various classes of service employees expected to be utilized under the contract if 5 U.S.C.5332 (General Schedule-white collar) and/or 5 U.S.C.5341 (Wage Board-blue collar) were applicable. (b) (b) Procedures for computation of these rates are as follows:
22.1003-3 Statutory exemptions. (a) (a) Any	contract for construction, alteration, or repair of public buildings	or public works, including painting and decorating; (b) (b) Any work required to be done in accordance with the provisions of 41 U.S.C. chapter 65; (c) (c) Any contract	for transporting freight or personnel by vessel, aircraft, bus,	truck, express, railroad, or oil or gas pipeline where published	tariff rates are in effect; (d) (d) Any contract	for furnishing services by radio, telephone, or cable companies	subject to the Communications Act of 1934; (e) (e) Any contract	for public utility services; (f) (f) Any employment	contract providing for direct services to a Federal agency by an	individual or individuals; or (g) (g) Any contract	for operating postal contract stations for the U.S. Postal Service.
Subpart 22.14 - Employment of Workers with Disabilities No subsections found.
53.222 Application of labor laws to Government acquisitions (SF’s 308, 1413, 1444, 1445, 1446, WH-347). (a) (a) [Reserved] (b) (b) [Reserved] (c) (c) SF 308 (DOL)(Rev. 2/2013), Request for Wage Determination and Response to Request. (See 22.404-3(a) and (b).) (d) (d) [Reserved] (e) (e) SF 1413 (Rev.4/2013), Statement and Acknowledgment. SF 1413 is prescribed for use in obtaining contractor acknowledgment of inclusion of required clauses in subcontracts, as specified in 22.406-5. (f) (f) Form SF 1444 (Rev.4/2013), Request for Authorization of Additional Classification and Rate. (See 22.406-3(a) and 22.1019.) (g) (g) SF 1445 (Rev.12/96), Labor Standards Interview. (See 22.406-7(b).) (h) (h) SF 1446 (Rev.4/2013.), Labor Standards Investigation Summary Sheet. (See 22.406-8(d).) (i) (i) Form WH-347 (DOL), Payroll (For Contractor's Optional Use). (See 22.406-6(a).)
Subpart 4.19 - Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems No subsections found.
35.014 Government property and title. (a) (a) The requirements in part  45 for establishing and maintaining control over Government property apply to all R&D contracts. (b) (b) In implementing 31 U.S.C.6306, and unless an agency head provides otherwise, the policies in paragraphs (1) through (4) following, regarding title to equipment (and other tangible personal property) purchased by the contractor using Government funds provided for the conduct of basic or applied scientific research, apply to contracts with nonprofit institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations whose primary purpose is the conduct of scientific research: (c) (c) The absence of an agreement covering title to equipment acquired by the contractor with Government funds that cost $1,000 or more does not limit an agency’s right to act to vest title in a contractor as authorized by 31 U.S.C.6306. (d) (d) (e) (e) The policies in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) and paragraph (d) of this section are implemented in the Government Property clauses.
52.249-9 Default (Fixed-Price Research and Development). (a) (a) (b) (b) If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part, it may acquire, under the terms and in the manner the Contracting Officer considers appropriate, work similar to the work terminated, and the Contractor will be liable to the Government for any excess costs for the similar work. However, the Contractor shall continue the work not terminated. (c) (c) Except for defaults of subcontractors at any tier, the Contractor shall not be liable for any excess costs if the failure to perform the contract arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples of such causes include (1) acts of God or of the public enemy, (2) acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, (3) fires, (4) floods, (5) epidemics, (6) quarantine restrictions, (7) strikes, (8) freight embargoes, and (9) unusually severe weather. In each instance the failure to perform must be beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. (d) (d) If the failure to perform is caused by the default of a subcontractor at any tier, and if the cause of the default is beyond the control of both the Contractor and subcontractor, and without the fault or negligence of either, the Contractor shall not be liable for any excess costs for failure to perform, unless the subcontracted supplies or services were obtainable from other sources in sufficient time for the Contractor to meet the required delivery schedule or other performance requirements. (e) (e) If this contract is terminated for default, the Government may require the Contractor to transfer title and deliver to the Government, as directed by the Contracting Officer, any (1) completed or partially completed work not previously delivered to, and accepted by, the Government and (2) other property, including contract rights, specifically produced or acquired for the terminated portion of this contract. Upon direction of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall also protect and preserve property in its possession in which the Government has an interest. (f) (f) The Government shall pay the contract price, if separately stated, for completed work it has accepted and the amount agreed upon by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer for (1) completed work for which no separate price is stated, (2) partially completed work, (3) other property described above that it accepts, and (4) the protection and preservation of the property. Failure to agree will be a dispute under the Disputes clause. The Government may withhold from these amounts any sum the Contracting Officer determines to be necessary to protect the Government against loss from outstanding liens or claims of former lien holders. (g) (g) If, after termination, it is determined that the Contractor was not in default, or that the default was excusable, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be the same as if the termination had been issued for the convenience of the Government. (h) (h) The rights and remedies of the Government in this clause are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this contract.
52.241 Utility Services Provisions and Clauses. No subsections found.
31.205-16 Gains and losses on disposition or impairment of depreciable property or other capital assets. (a) (a) Gains and losses from the sale, retirement, or other disposition (but see 31.205-19) of depreciable property shall be included in the year in which they occur as credits or charges to the cost grouping(s) in which the depreciation or amortization applicable to those assets was included (but see paragraph (f) of this subsection). However, no gain or loss shall be recognized as a result of the transfer of assets in a business combination (see 31.205-52). (b) (b) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (c) of this subsection, when costs of depreciable property are subject to the sale and leaseback limitations in 31.205-11(h)(1) or 31.205-36(b)(2)- (c) (c) Gains and losses on disposition of tangible capital assets, including those acquired under capital leases (see 31.205-11(h)), shall be considered as adjustments of depreciation costs previously recognized. The gain or loss for each asset disposed of is the difference between the net amount realized, including insurance proceeds from involuntary conversions, and its undepreciated balance. (d) (d) The gain recognized for contract costing purposes shall be limited to the difference between the acquisition cost (or for assets acquired under a capital lease, the value at which the leased asset is capitalized) of the asset and its undepreciated balance (except see paragraphs (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this subsection). (e) (e) Special considerations apply to an involuntary con-version which occurs when a contractor’s property is destroyed by events over which the owner has no control, such as fire, windstorm, flood, accident, theft, etc., and an insurance award is recovered. The following govern involuntary conversions: (f) (f) Gains and losses on the disposition of depreciable property shall not be recognized as a separate charge or credit when- (g) (g) Gains and losses arising from mass or extraordinary sales, retirements, or other disposition other than through business combinations shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. (h) (h) Gains and losses of any nature arising from the sale or exchange of capital assets other than depreciable property shall be excluded in computing contract costs. (i) (i) With respect to long-lived tangible and identifiable intangible assets held for use, no loss shall be allowed for a write-down from carrying value to fair value as a result of impairments caused by events or changes in circumstances (e.g., environmental damage, idle facilities arising from a declining business base, etc.). If depreciable property or other capital assets have been written down from carrying value to fair value due to impairments, gains or losses upon disposition shall be the amounts that would have been allowed had the assets not been written down.
6.401 Sealed bidding and competitive proposals. (a) (a) Sealed bids. (See part  14 for procedures.) Contracting officers shall solicit sealed bids if- (b) (b) Competitive proposals. (See part  15 for procedures.)
22.1500 Scope. No subsections found.
52.247-40 Ex Dock, Pier, or Warehouse, Port of Importation. (a) (a) The term "ex dock, pier, or warehouse, port of importation," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered on the designated dock or pier or in the warehouse at the specified port of importation. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
49.601-2 Letter notice. No subsections found.
52.241-10 Termination Liability. (a) (a) If the Government discontinues utility service under this contract before completion of the facilities cost recovery period specified in paragraph (b) of this clause, in consideration of the Contractor furnishing and installing at its expense, the new facility described herein, the Government shall pay termination charges, calculated as set forth in this clause. (b) (b) Facility cost recovery period. The period of time, not exceeding the term of this contract, during which the net cost of the new facility shall be recovered by the Contractor is ______ months.[Insert negotiated duration.] (c) (c) Net facility cost. The cost of the new facility, less the agreed upon salvage value of such facility, is $_______. [Insert appropriate dollar amount.] (d) (d) Monthly facility cost recovery rate. The monthly facility cost recovery rate which the Government shall pay the Contractor whether or not service is received is $_____.[Divide the net facility cost in paragraph (c) of this clause by the facility’s cost recovery period in paragraph (b) of this clause and insert the resultant figure.] (e) (e) Termination charges. Termination charges = $____.[Multiply the remaining months of the facility's cost recovery period specified in paragraph (b) of this clause by the monthly facility cost recovery rate in paragraph (d) of this clause and insert the resultant figure.] (f) (f) If the Contractor has recovered its capital costs at the time of termination there will be no termination liability charge.
32.203 Determining contract financing terms. No subsections found.
15.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
22.404-12 Labor standards for contracts containing construction requirements and option provisions that extend the term of the contract. (a) (a) Each time the contracting officer exercises an option to extend the term of a contract for construction, or a contract that includes substantial and segregable construction work, the contracting officer must modify the contract to incorporate the most current wage determination. (b) (b) If a contract with an option to extend the term of the contract has indefinite-delivery or indefinite-quantity construction requirements, the contracting officer must incorporate the wage determination incorporated into the contract at the exercise of the option into task orders issued during that option period. The wage determination will be effective for the complete period of performance of those task orders without further revision. (c) (c) The contracting officer must include in fixed-price contracts a clause that specifies one of the following methods, suitable to the interest of the Government, to provide an allowance for any increases or decreases in labor costs that result from the inclusion of the current wage determination at the exercise of an option to extend the term of the contract:
4.1600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.107 Provisions and clauses prescribed in subpart 52.1. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.252-1, Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference, in solicitations in order to incorporate provisions by reference. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.252-2, Clauses Incorporated by Reference, in solicitations and contracts in order to incorporate clauses by reference. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.252-3, Alterations in Solicitation, in solicitations in order to revise or supplement, as necessary, other parts of the solicitation that apply to the solicitation phase only, except for any provision authorized for use with a deviation. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.252-4, Alterations in Contract, in solicitations and contracts in order to revise or supplement, as necessary, other parts of the contract, or parts of the solicitations that apply to the contract phase, except for any clause authorized for use with a deviation. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.252-5, Authorized Deviations in Provisions, in solicitations that include any FAR or supplemental provision with an authorized deviation. Whenever any FAR or supplemental provision is used with an authorized deviation, the contracting officer shall identify it by the same number, title, and date assigned to the provision when it is used without deviation, include regulation name for any supplemental provision, except that the contracting officer shall insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the provision. (f) (f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.252-6, Authorized Deviations in Clauses, in solicitations and contracts that include any FAR or supplemental clause with an authorized deviation. Whenever any FAR or supplemental clause is used with an authorized deviation, the contracting officer shall identify it by the same number, title, and date assigned to the clause when it is used without deviation, include regulation name for any supplemental clause, except that the contracting officer shall insert "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause.
Subpart 26.6 - Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving No subsections found.
52.236-13 Accident Prevention. (a) (a) The Contractor shall provide and maintain work environments and procedures which will- (b) (b) For these purposes on contracts for construction or dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements, the Contractor shall- (c) (c) If this contract is for construction or dismantling, demolition or removal of improvements with any Department of Defense agency or component, the Contractor shall comply with all pertinent provisions of the latest version of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Safety and Health Requirements Manual, EM 385-1-1, in effect on the date of the solicitation. (d) (d) Whenever the Contracting Officer becomes aware of any noncompliance with these requirements or any condition which poses a serious or imminent danger to the health or safety of the public or Government personnel, the Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor orally, with written confirmation, and request immediate initiation of corrective action. This notice, when delivered to the Contractor or the Contractor’s representative at the work site, shall be deemed sufficient notice of the noncompliance and that corrective action is required. After receiving the notice, the Contractor shall immediately take corrective action. If the Contractor fails or refuses to promptly take corrective action, the Contracting Officer may issue an order stopping all or part of the work until satisfactory corrective action has been taken. The Contractor shall not be entitled to any equitable adjustment of the contract price or extension of the performance schedule on any stop work order issued under this clause. (e) (e) The Contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (e), with appropriate changes in the designation of the parties, in subcontracts.
Subpart 37.4 - Nonpersonal Health Care Services No subsections found.
52.222-10 Compliance with Copeland Act Requirements. No subsections found.
3.1105 Violations. No subsections found.
17.208 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.217-3, Evaluation Exclusive of Options, in solicitations when the solicitation includes an option clause and does not include one of the provisions prescribed in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. (b) (b) Insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.217-4, Evaluation of Options Exercised at Time of Contract Award, in solicitations when the solicitation includes an option clause, the contracting officer has determined that there is a reasonable likelihood that the option will be exercised, and the option may be exercised at the time of contract award. (c) (c) Insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.217-5, Evaluation of Options, in solicitations when- (d) (d) Insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.217-6, Option for Increased Quantity, in solicitations and contracts, other than those for services, when the inclusion of an option is appropriate (see 17.200 and 17.202) and the option quantity is expressed as a percentage of the basic contract quantity or as an additional quantity of a specific line item. (e) (e) Insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.217-7, Option for Increased Quantity-Separately Priced Line Item, in solicitations and contracts, other than those for services, when the inclusion of an option is appropriate (see 17.200 and 17.202) and the option quantity is identified as a separately priced line item having the same nomenclature as a corresponding line item. (f) (f) Insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.217-8, Option to Extend Services, in solicitations and contracts for services when the inclusion of an option is appropriate. (See 17.200, 17.202, and 37.111.) (g) (g) Insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.217-9, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract, in solicitations and contracts when the inclusion of an option is appropriate (see 17.200 and 17.202) and it is necessary to include in the contract any or all of the following:
52.214-2 [Reserved] No subsections found.
22.602 Statutory requirements. No subsections found.
8.701 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.236-6 Superintendence by the Contractor. No subsections found.
19.301 Representations and rerepresentations. No subsections found.
52.227-4 Patent Indemnity-Construction Contracts. No subsections found.
28.307-1 Group insurance plans. (a) (a) Prior approval requirement. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, before buying insurance under a group insurance plan, the contractor must submit the plan for approval, in accordance with agency regulations. Any change in benefits provided under an approved plan that can reasonably be expected to increase significantly the cost to the Government requires similar approval. (b) (b) Premium refunds or credits. The plan shall provide for the Government to share in any premium refunds or credits paid or otherwise allowed to the contractor. In determining the extent of the Government’s share in any premium refunds or credits, any special reserves and other refunds to which the contractor may be entitled in the future shall be taken into account.
52.242-5 Payments to Small Business Subcontractors. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Notice. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, not later than 14 days after- (c) (c) Content of notice. The Contractor shall include the reason(s) for making the reduced or untimely payment in any notice required under paragraph (b) of this clause.
52.214-35 Submission of Offers in U.S. Currency. No subsections found.
41.401 Monthly and annual review. No subsections found.
32.112-2 Subcontractor requests for information. (a) (a) In accordance with section 806(a)(1) of Public Law 102-190, as amended by sections 2091 and 8105 of Public Law 103-355 (10 U.S.C. 4601 note prec.), upon the request of a subcontractor or supplier under a Federal contract other than for a commercial product or commercial service, the contracting officer shall promptly advise the subcontractor or supplier as to— (b) (b) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1), this subsection does not apply to matters that are-
Subpart 5.7 - Publicizing Requirements Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 No subsections found.
23.104 General procedures. (a) (a) Maximum extent practicable. If the requiring activity submits a written justification addressing the reasons described in 23.103(a)(1), the contracting officer may consider it not practicable to procure sustainable products or services. A written justification may be for a specific product or service or at the line item or contract level. The contracting officer shall maintain the written justification in the contract file. (b) (b) Identification. (c) (c) Prioritization. Agencies shall prioritize sustainable products and services as follows: (d) (d) Resource. The Green Procurement Compilation (GPC) available at https://sftool.gov/​greenprocurement provides a comprehensive list of sustainable products and services and other related sustainable acquisition guidance. In addition to the resources identified for each purchasing program listed in 23.107 and 23.108, agencies should consult the GPC when determining which purchasing programs apply to a specific product or service.
47.304-4 Shipments originating outside CONUS. (a) (a) Unless there are valid reasons to the contrary (see 47.304-5), acquisition of supplies originating outside CONUS for ultimate delivery to destinations within CONUS or elsewhere, regardless of the quantity of the shipments, shall be on the basis of f.o.b. origin or f.o.b. destination, whichever is more advantageous to the Government. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall request the advice of the transportation officer to determine the most appropriate place of delivery to be specified in acquisition documents, giving full consideration to the possible use of Government transportation facilities, reduced rates available, special licensing or custom requirements, and availability of U.S. flag shipping services between the points involved (see subpart  47.5).
45.106 Transferring accountability. No subsections found.
49.105-2 Release of excess funds. (a) (a) The TCO shall estimate the funds required to settle the termination, and within 30 days after the receipt of the termination notice, recommend the release of excess funds to the contracting officer. The initial deobligation of excess funds should be accomplished in a timely manner by the contracting officer, or the TCO, if delegated the responsibility. The TCO shall not recommend the release of amounts under $1,000, unless requested by the contracting officer. (b) (b) The TCO shall maintain continuous surveillance of required funds to permit timely release of any additional excess funds (a recommended format for release of excess funds is in 49.604). If previous releases of excess funds result in a shortage of the amount required for settlement, the TCO shall promptly inform the contracting officer, who shall reinstate the funds within 30 days.
52.211-18 Variation in Estimated Quantity. No subsections found.
50.102-1 Delegation of authority. (a) (a) Authority delegated shall be to a level high enough to ensure uniformity of action. (b) (b) Authority to approve requests to obligate the Government in excess of  $75,000 may not be delegated below the secretarial level. (c) (c) Regardless of dollar amount, authority to approve any amendment without consideration that increases the contract price or unit price may not be delegated below the secretarial level, except in extraordinary cases or classes of cases when the agency head finds that special circumstances clearly justify such delegation. (d) (d) Regardless of dollar amount, authority to indemnify against unusually hazardous or nuclear risks, including extension of such indemnification to subcontracts, shall be exercised only by the Secretary or Administrator of the agency concerned, the Public Printer, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority (see 50.104-3).
13.303-2 Establishment of BPAs. (a) (a) The following are circumstances under which contracting officers may establish BPAs: (b) (b) After determining a BPA would be advantageous, contracting officers shall- (c) (c) BPAs may be established with- (d) (d) BPAs should be prepared without a purchase requisition and only after contacting suppliers to make the necessary arrangements for-
22.403-6 Department of Labor regulations involving construction. (a) (a) Under the statutes and Executive orders referred to in 22.403 and Reorganization Plan No. 14 of 1950 (3 CFR 1949-53 Comp., p. 1007), the Secretary of Labor has issued regulations in Title 29, Subtitle A, Code of Federal Regulations, prescribing standards and procedures to be observed by the Department of Labor and the Federal contracting agencies. Those standards and procedures applicable to contracts involving construction are implemented in this subpart. (b) (b) The Department of Labor regulations include- (c) (c) Refer all questions relating to the application and interpretation of wage determinations (including the classifications therein) and the interpretation of the Department of Labor regulations in this subsection to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division.
27.403 Data rights-General. No subsections found.
Part 5 - Publicizing Contract Actions No subsections found.
49.303-3 Audit of settlement proposal. No subsections found.
25.202 Exceptions. (a) (a) When one of the following exceptions applies, the contracting officer may allow the contractor to acquire foreign construction materials without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American statute: (b) (b) Determination and findings. When a determination is made for any of the reasons stated in this section that certain foreign construction materials may be used, the contracting officer must list the excepted materials in the contract. The agency must make the findings justifying the exception available for public inspection. (c) (c) Acquisitions under trade agreements. For construction contracts with an estimated acquisition value of $6,708,000 or more, see subpart  25.4.
35.017-7 Limitation on the creation of new FFRDC’s. (a) (a) The head of the agency submits to Congress a report with respect to such center that describes the purpose, mission, and general scope of effort of the center; and (b) (b) A period of 60 days, beginning on the date such report is received by Congress, has elapsed.
Subpart 42.13 - Suspension of Work, Stop-Work Orders, and Government Delay of Work No subsections found.
51.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
52.223-3 Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data. (a) (a) "Hazardous material," as used in this clause, includes any material defined as hazardous under the latest version of Federal Standard No.313 (including revisions adopted during the term of the contract). (b) (b) The offeror must list any hazardous material, as defined in paragraph (a) of this clause, to be delivered under this contract. The hazardous material shall be properly identified and include any applicable identification number, such as National Stock Number or Special Item Number. This information shall also be included on the Material Safety Data Sheet submitted under this contract. (c) (c) This list must be updated during performance of the contract whenever the Contractor determines that any other material to be delivered under this contract is hazardous. (d) (d) The apparently successful offeror agrees to submit, for each item as required prior to award, a Material Safety Data Sheet, meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and the latest version of Federal Standard No.313, for all hazardous material identified in paragraph (b) of this clause. Data shall be submitted in accordance with Federal Standard No.313, whether or not the apparently successful offeror is the actual manufacturer of these items. Failure to submit the Material Safety Data Sheet prior to award may result in the apparently successful offeror being considered nonresponsible and ineligible for award. (e) (e) If, after award, there is a change in the composition of the item(s) or a revision to Federal Standard No.313, which renders incomplete or inaccurate the data submitted under paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer and resubmit the data. (f) (f) Neither the requirements of this clause nor any act or failure to act by the Government shall relieve the Contractor of any responsibility or liability for the safety of Government, Contractor, or subcontractor personnel or property. (g) (g) Nothing contained in this clause shall relieve the Contractor from complying with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations (including the obtaining of licenses and permits) in connection with hazardous material. (h) (h) The Government’s rights in data furnished under this contract with respect to hazardous material are as follows:
Subpart 8.5 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
4.2101 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 11.7 - Variation in Quantity No subsections found.
52.232-1 Payments. (a) (a) The amount due on the deliveries warrants it; or (b) (b) The Contractor requests it and the amount due on the deliveries is at least $1,000 or 50 percent of the total contract price.
19.706 Responsibilities of the cognizant administrative contracting officer. (a) (a) Documentation on the contractor’s performance and compliance with subcontracting plans under previous contracts; (b) (b) Information on the extent to which the contractor is meeting the plan’s goals for subcontracting with eligible small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns; (c) (c) Information on whether the contractor’s efforts to ensure the participation of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns are in accordance with its subcontracting plan; (d) (d) Information on whether the contractor is requiring its subcontractors to adopt similar subcontracting plans; (e) (e) Immediate notice if, during performance, the contractor is failing to meet its commitments under the clause prescribed in 19.708(b) or the subcontracting plan; (f) (f) Immediate notice and rationale if, during performance, the contractor is failing to comply in good faith with the subcontracting plan (see 19.705-7(b) for more information on the determination of good faith effort); and (g) (g) Immediate notice that performance under a contract is complete, that the goals were or were not met, and, if not met, whether there is any indication of a lack of a good faith effort to comply with the subcontracting plan.
47.207-5 Contractor responsibilities. (a) (a) Type of equipment. If appropriate, the contracting officer shall specify the type and size of equipment to be furnished by the contractor. Otherwise, state that the contractor shall furnish clean and sound closed-type equipment of sufficient size to accommodate the shipment. (b) (b) Supervision, labor, or materials. The contracting officer shall insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.247-12, Supervision, Labor, or Materials, when the contractor is required to furnish supervision, labor, or materials. (c) (c) Accessorial services-moving contracts. The contracting officer shall insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.247-13, Accessorial Services-Moving Contracts, in contracts for the transportation of household goods or office furniture. (d) (d) Receipt of shipment. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-14, Contractor Responsibility for Receipt of Shipment. (e) (e) Loading and unloading. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-15, Contractor Responsibility for Loading and Unloading, when the contractor is responsible for loading and unloading shipments. (f) (f) Return of undelivered freight. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-16, Contractor Responsibility for Returning Undelivered Freight, when the contractor is responsible for returning undelivered freight.
15.207 Handling proposals and information. (a) (a) Upon receipt at the location specified in the solicitation, proposals and information received in response to a request for information (RFI) shall be marked with the date and time of receipt and shall be transmitted to the designated officials. (b) (b) Proposals shall be safeguarded from unauthorized disclosure throughout the source selection process. (See 3.104 regarding the disclosure of source selection information (41 U.S.C. chapter 21, Restrictions on Obtaining and Disclosing Certain Information). Information received in response to an RFI shall be safeguarded adequately from unauthorized disclosure. (c) (c) If any portion of a proposal received by the contracting officer electronically or by facsimile is unreadable, the contracting officer immediately shall notify the offeror and permit the offeror to resubmit the unreadable portion of the proposal. The method and time for resubmission shall be prescribed by the contracting officer after consultation with the offeror, and documented in the file. The resubmission shall be considered as if it were received at the date and time of the original unreadable submission for the purpose of determining timeliness under 15.208(a), provided the offeror complies with the time and format requirements for resubmission prescribed by the contracting officer.
4.607 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the provision at 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business), in all solicitations that- (b) (b) Insert the provision at 52.204-6, Unique Entity Identifier, in solicitations that do not contain the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management, or meet a condition at 4.605(c)(2). (c) (c) Insert the clause at 52.204-12, Unique Entity Identifier Maintenance, in solicitations and resulting contracts that contain the provision at 52.204-6, Unique Entity Identifier.
14.408-3 Prompt payment discounts. (a) (a) Prompt payment discounts shall not be considered in the evaluation of bids. However, any discount offered will form a part of the award, and will be taken by the payment center if payment is made within the discount period specified by the bidder. As an alternative to indicating a discount in conjunction with the offer, bidders may prefer to offer discounts on individual invoices. (b) (b) See 32.111(b)(1), which prescribes the contract clause at 52.232-8, Discounts for Prompt Payment.
Subpart 22.1 - Basic Labor Policies No subsections found.
19.814 Requesting a formal size determination (8(a) sole source requirements). (a) (a) If the size status of an 8(a) participant nominated for award of an 8(a) sole source contract is called into question, a request for a formal size determination may be submitted to SBA pursuant to 13 CFR 121.1001(b)(2)(ii) by- (b) (b) SBA’s Government Contracting Area Director will issue a formal size determination within 15 business days, if possible, after SBA receives the request for a formal size determination. (c) (c) An appeal of an SBA size determination shall follow the procedures at 19.302.
45.604-4 Sale of property pursuant to the exchange/sale authority. No subsections found.
32.604 Demand for payment. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall take the following actions: (b) (b) The demand for payment shall include the following: (c) (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the contracting officer should not issue a demand for payment if the contracting officer only becomes aware of the debt when the contractor- (d) (d) If a demand for payment was not issued as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall issue a demand for payment no sooner than 30 days after the contracting officer becomes aware of the debt unless- (e) (e) The contracting officer shall-
42.101 Contract audit responsibilities. (a) (a) The auditor is responsible for- (b) (b) Normally, for contractors other than educational institutions and nonprofit organizations, the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) is the responsible Government audit agency. However, there may be instances where an agency other than DCAA desires cognizance of a particular contractor. In those instances, the two agencies shall agree on the most efficient and economical approach to meet contract audit requirements. For educational institutions (defined as institutions of higher education in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, and 20 U .S.C. 1001) and nonprofit organizations (as defined in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200), audit cognizance will be determined according to the provisions of the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
52.228-14 Irrevocable Letter of Credit. (a) (a) "Irrevocable letter of credit" (ILC), as used in this clause, means a written commitment by a federally insured financial institution to pay all or part of a stated amount of money, until the expiration date of the letter, upon presentation by the Government (the beneficiary) of a written demand therefor. Neither the financial institution nor the offeror/Contractor can revoke or condition the letter of credit. (b) (b) If the offeror intends to use an ILC in lieu of a bid bond, or to secure other types of bonds such as performance and payment bonds, the letter of credit and letter of confirmation formats in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause shall be used. (c) (c) The letter of credit shall be irrevocable, shall require presentation of no document other than a written demand and the ILC (including confirming letter, if any), shall be issued/confirmed by an acceptable federally insured financial institution as provided in paragraph (d) of this clause, and- (d) (d) (e) (e) The following format shall be used by the issuing financial institution to create an ILC: (f) (f) The following format shall be used by the financial institution to confirm an ILC: (g) (g) The following format shall be used by the Contracting Officer for a sight draft to draw on the Letter of Credit:
24.103 Procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall review requirements to determine whether the contract will involve the design, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function. (b) (b) If one or more of those tasks will be required, the contracting officer shall-
36.303 Procedures. No subsections found.
13.101 General. (a) (a) In making purchases, contracting officers shall- (b) (b) In making purchases, contracting officers should-
52.214-11 [Reserved] No subsections found.
46.406 Foreign governments. No subsections found.
52.216-21 Requirements. (a) (a) This is a requirements contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies or services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. Except as this contract may otherwise provide, if the Government’s requirements do not result in orders in the quantities described as "estimated" or "maximum" in the Schedule, that fact shall not constitute the basis for an equitable price adjustment. (b) (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. Subject to any limitations in the Order Limitations clause or elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall furnish to the Government all supplies or services specified in the Schedule and called for by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (c) (c) Except as this contract otherwise provides, the Government shall order from the Contractor all the supplies or services specified in the Schedule that are required to be purchased by the Government activity or activities specified in the Schedule. (d) (d) The Government is not required to purchase from the Contractor requirements in excess of any limit on total orders under this contract. (e) (e) If the Government urgently requires delivery of any quantity of an item before the earliest date that delivery may be specified under this contract, and if the Contractor will not accept an order providing for the accelerated delivery, the Government may acquire the urgently required goods or services from another source. (f) (f) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor’s and Government’s rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract’s effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after _________________ [insert date].
33.102 General. (a) (a) Without regard to the protest venue, contracting officers shall consider all protests and seek legal advice, whether protests are submitted before or after award and whether filed directly with the agency, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), or the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. (See 19.302 for protests of small business status, 19.305 for protests of disadvantaged business status, 19.306 for protests of HUBZone small business status, and 19.307 for protests of service-disabled veteran-owned small business status, and M) for protests of the status of an economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concern or of a women-owned small business concern eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program.) (b) (b) If, in connection with a protest, the head of an agency determines that a solicitation, proposed award, or award does not comply with the requirements of law or regulation, the head of the agency may- (c) (c) In accordance with 31 U.S.C.1558, with respect to any protest filed with the GAO, if the funds available to the agency for a contract at the time a protest is filed in connection with a solicitation for, proposed award of, or award of such a contract would otherwise expire, such funds shall remain available for obligation for 100 days after the date on which the final ruling is made on the protest. A ruling is considered final on the date on which the time allowed for filing an appeal or request for reconsideration has expired, or the date on which a decision is rendered on such appeal or request, whichever is later. (d) (d) Protest likely after award. The contracting officer may stay performance of a contract within the time period contained in paragraph 33.104(c)(1) if the contracting officer makes a written determination that- (e) (e) An interested party wishing to protest is encouraged to seek resolution within the agency (see 33.103) before filing a protest with the GAO, but may protest to the GAO in accordance with GAO regulations (4 CFR Part 21). (f) (f) No person may file a protest at GAO for a procurement integrity violation unless that person reported to the contracting officer the information constituting evidence of the violation within 14 days after the person first discovered the possible violation (41 U.S.C. 2106).
29.304 Matters requiring special consideration. (a) (a) With coordination of the agency-designated counsel, a contract may (1) state that the contract price includes or excludes a specified tax or (2) require that the contractor take certain actions with regard to payment, nonpayment, refund, protest, or other treatment of a specified tax. Such special treatment may be appropriate when there is doubt as to the applicability or allocability of the tax, or when the applicability of the tax is being litigated. (b) (b) The applicability of State and local taxes to purchases by the Federal Government may depend on the place and terms of delivery. When the contract price will be substantial, alternative places and terms of delivery should be considered in light of possible tax consequences. (c) (c) Indefinite-delivery contracts for equipment rental may require the contractor to furnish equipment in any of the States. Since leased equipment remains the contractor’s property, States and local governments impose a wide variety of property, use, or other taxes on equipment leased to the Government. The amount of these taxes can vary considerably from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. See 29.401-1 for the prescription of the contract clause to be included in contracts when delivery points are not known at time of contracting. (d) (d) The North Carolina State and local sales and use tax.
52.227-19 Commercial Computer Software License. (a) (a) Notwithstanding any contrary provisions contained in the Contractor’s standard commercial license or lease agreement, the Contractor agrees that the Government will have the rights that are set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause to use, duplicate or disclose any commercial computer software delivered under this contract. The terms and provisions of this contract shall comply with Federal laws and the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (b) (b) (c) (c) The Contractor shall affix a notice substantially as follows to any commercial computer software delivered under this contract:
Subpart 3.9 - Whistleblower Protections for Contractor Employees No subsections found.
52.247-59 F.o.b. Origin-Carload and Truckload Shipments. (a) (a) The Contractor agrees that shipment shall be made in carload or truckload lots when the quantity to be delivered to any one destination in any delivery period pursuant to the contract schedule of deliveries is sufficient to constitute a carload or truckload shipment, except as may otherwise be permitted or directed, in writing, by the Contracting Officer. (b) (b) For evaluation purposes, the agreed weight of a carload or truckload shall be the highest applicable minimum weight that will result in the lowest freight rate (or per car charge) on file or published in common carrier tariffs or tenders as of the date of bid opening (or the closing date specified for receipt of proposals). (c) (c) For purposes of actual delivery, the agreed weight of a carload or truckload will be the highest applicable minimum weight that will result in the lowest possible freight rate (or per car charge) on file or published as of date of shipment. (d) (d) If the total weight of any scheduled quantity to a destination is less than the highest carload/truckload minimum weight used for evaluation of offers, the Contractor agrees to ship such scheduled quantity in one shipment. (e) (e) The Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any increased costs to the Government resulting from failure to comply with the above requirements.
25.605 Evaluating offers of foreign construction material. (a) (a) If the contracting officer has determined that an exception applies because the cost of certain domestic construction material is unreasonable, in accordance with section 25.604, then the contracting officer shall apply evaluation factors to the offer incorporating the use of such foreign construction material as follows: (b) (b) If the solicitation specifies award on the basis of factors in addition to cost or price, apply the evaluation factors as specified in paragraph (a) of this section and use the evaluated price in determining the offer that represents the best value to the Government (c) (c) Unless paragraph (b) applies, if two or more offers are equal in price, the contracting officer must give preference to an offer that does not include foreign construction material excepted at the request of the offeror on the basis of unreasonable cost. (d) (d) Offerors also may submit alternate offers based on use of equivalent domestic construction material to avoid possible rejection of the entire offer if the Government determines that an exception permitting use of a particular foreign construction material does not apply. (e) (e) If the contracting officer awards a contract to an offeror that proposed foreign construction material not listed in the applicable clause in the solicitation (paragraph (b)(3) of 52.225-21, or paragraph (b)(3) of 52.225-23), the contracting officer must add the excepted materials to the list in the contract clause.
52.222-34 Project Labor Agreement. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) The Contractor shall maintain in a current status throughout the life of the contract the project labor agreement entered into prior to the award of the contract. (c) (c) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in subcontracts with subcontractors engaged in construction on the construction project.
52.246-14 Inspection of Transportation. No subsections found.
Part 41 - Acquisition of Utility Services No subsections found.
47.300 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for the application of transportation and traffic management considerations in the acquisition of supplies. The terms and conditions contained in this subpart are applicable to fixed-price contracts. (b) (b) If a special requirement exists for application of any of these terms and conditions to other types of contracts; e.g., cost-reimbursement contracts, for which transportation arrangements are normally the responsibility of the contractor and transportation costs are allowable, the contracting officer shall use the terms and conditions prescribed in this subpart as a guide for-
22.1802 Policy. (a) (a) Statutes and Executive orders require employers to abide by the immigration laws of the United States and to employ in the United States only individuals who are eligible to work in the United States. The E-Verify program provides an Internet-based means of verifying employment eligibility of workers employed in the United States, but is not a substitute for any other employment eligibility verification requirements. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall include in solicitations and contracts, as prescribed at 22.1803, requirements that Federal contractors must- (c) (c) Contractors may elect to verify employment eligibility of all existing employees working in the United States who were hired after November 6, 1986 (after November 27, 2009, in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands) instead of just those employees assigned to the contract. The contractor is not required to verify employment eligibility of- (d) (d) In exceptional cases, the head of the contracting activity may waive the E-Verify requirement for a contract or subcontract or a class of contracts or subcontracts, either temporarily or for the period of performance. This waiver authority may not be delegated. (e) (e) DHS and the Social Security Administration (SSA) may terminate a contractor's memorandum of understanding (MOU) and deny access to the E-Verify system in accordance with the terms of the MOU. If DHS or SSA terminates a contractor's MOU, the terminating agency must refer the contractor to a suspending and debarring official for possible suspension or debarment action. During the period between termination of the MOU and a decision by the suspending and debarring official whether to suspend or debar, the contractor is excused from its obligations under paragraph (b) of the clause at 52.222-54. If the contractor is suspended, debarred, or subject to a voluntary exclusion as a result of the MOU termination, the contractor is not eligible to participate in E-Verify during the period of its suspension, debarment, or voluntary exclusion. If the contractor is not suspended, debarred, or subject to a voluntary exclusion, then the contractor must re-enroll in E-Verify.
52.225-14 Inconsistency between English Version and Translation of Contract. No subsections found.
45.501 Prime contractor alternate locations. No subsections found.
52.208-2 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) This part identifies acquisition flexibilities that are available for emergency acquisitions. These flexibilities are specific techniques or procedures that may be used to streamline the standard acquisition process. This part includes- (b) (b) The acquisition flexibilities in this part are not exempt from the requirements and limitations set forth in FAR part  3, Improper Business Practices and Personal Conflicts of Interest. (c) (c) Additional flexibilities may be authorized in an executive agency supplement to the FAR.
36.514 Availability and use of utility services. No subsections found.
25.301-2 Government support. (a) (a) Generally, contractors are responsible for providing their own logistical and security support, including logistical and security support for their employees. The agency shall provide logistical or security support only when the appropriate agency official, in accordance with agency guidance, determines that- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall specify in the contract, and in the solicitation if possible, the exact support to be provided, and whether this support is provided on a reimbursable basis, citing the authority for the reimbursement.
9.400 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart- (b) (b) Although this subpart does cover the listing of ineligible contractors (9.404) and the effect of this listing (9.405), it does not prescribe policies and procedures governing declarations of ineligibility except for contractors that have been declared ineligible pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 983 (see 9.110, and 9.405-1(b)). (c) (c) For Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act (FASCSA) orders, see subpart 4.23.
31.205-32 Precontract costs. No subsections found.
52.219-11 Special 8(a) Contract Conditions. (a) (a) To furnish the supplies or services set forth in this contract according to the specifications and the terms and conditions hereof by subcontracting with an eligible concern pursuant to the provisions of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 637(a)). (b) (b) That in the event SBA does not award a subcontract for all or a part of the work hereunder, this contract may be terminated either in whole or in part without cost to either party. (c) (c) Except for novation agreements, delegate to the _________ [insert name of contracting agency] the responsibility for administering the subcontract to be awarded hereunder with complete authority to take any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the subcontract; provided, however, that the _________ [insert name of contracting agency] shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating the right of a subcontractor to proceed with further performance, either in whole or in part, under the subcontract for default or for the convenience of the Government. (d) (d) That payments to be made under any subcontract awarded under this contract will be made directly to the subcontractor by the ___________ [insert name of contracting agency]. (e) (e) That the subcontractor awarded a subcontract hereunder shall have the right of appeal from decisions of the Contracting Officer cognizable under the "Disputes" clause of said subcontract. (f) (f) To notify the _________ [insert name of contracting agency]  Contracting Officer immediately upon notification by the subcontractor that the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility was based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern.
52.247-64 Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, the Cargo Preference Act of1954 (46 U.S.C.App.1241(b)) requires that Federal departments and agencies shall transport in privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels at least 50 percent of the gross tonnage of equipment, materials, or commodities that may be transported in ocean vessels (computed separately for dry bulk carriers, dry cargo liners, and tankers). Such transportation shall be accomplished when any equipment, materials, or commodities, located within or outside the United States, that may be transported by ocean vessel are- (b) (b) The Contractor shall use privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels to ship at least 50 percent of the gross tonnage involved under this contract (computed separately for dry bulk carriers, dry cargo liners, and tankers) whenever shipping any equipment, materials, or commodities under the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause, to the extent that such vessels are available at rates that are fair and reasonable for privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels. (c) (c) (d) (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts or purchase orders under this contract, except those described in paragraph (e)(4). (e) (e) The requirement in paragraph (a) does not apply to- (f) (f) Guidance regarding fair and reasonable rates for privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels may be obtained from the:
31.703 Requirements. (a) (a) Contracts which refer to this subpart  31.7 for determining allowable costs shall be deemed to refer to, and shall have the allowability of costs determined by the contracting officer in accordance with, the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and appendix IV in effect on the date of the contract. (b) (b) Agencies are not expected to place additional restrictions on individual items of cost. However, under 10 U.S.C. 3744 and 41 U.S.C.4304, the costs cited in 31.603(b) are unallowable.
3.104-8 Criminal and civil penalties, and further administrative remedies. (a) (a) An official who knowingly fails to comply with the requirements of 3.104-3 is subject to the penalties and administrative action set forth in 41 U.S.C. 2105. (b) (b) An offeror who engages in employment discussion with an official subject to the restrictions of 3.104-3, knowing that the official has not complied with 3.104-3(c)(1), is subject to the criminal, civil, or administrative penalties set forth in 41 U.S.C. 2105. (c) (c) An official who refuses to terminate employment discussions (see 3.104-5) may be subject to agency administrative actions under 5 CFR 2635.604(d) if the official’s disqualification from participation in a particular procurement interferes substantially with the individual’s ability to perform assigned duties.
52.246-2 Inspection of Supplies-Fixed-Price. (a) (a) Definition. "Supplies," as used in this clause, includes but is not limited to raw materials, components, intermediate assemblies, end products, and lots of supplies. (b) (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering supplies under this contract and shall tender to the Government for acceptance only supplies that have been inspected in accordance with the inspection system and have been found by the Contractor to be in conformity with contract requirements. As part of the system, the Contractor shall prepare records evidencing all inspections made under the system and the outcome. These records shall be kept complete and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. The Government may perform reviews and evaluations as reasonably necessary to ascertain compliance with this paragraph. These reviews and evaluations shall be conducted in a manner that will not unduly delay the contract work. The right of review, whether exercised or not, does not relieve the Contractor of the obligations under the contract. (c) (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all supplies called for by the contract, to the extent practicable, at all places and times, including the period of manufacture, and in any event before acceptance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. The Government assumes no contractual obligation to perform any inspection and test for the benefit of the Contractor unless specifically set forth elsewhere in this contract. (d) (d) If the Government performs inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish, and shall require subcontractors to furnish, at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties. Except as otherwise provided in the contract, the Government shall bear the expense of Government inspections or tests made at other than the Contractor’s or subcontractor’s premises; provided, that in case of rejection, the Government shall not be liable for any reduction in the value of inspection or test samples. (e) (e) (f) (f) The Government has the right either to reject or to require correction of nonconforming supplies. Supplies are nonconforming when they are defective in material or workmanship or are otherwise not in conformity with contract requirements. The Government may reject nonconforming supplies with or without disposition instructions. (g) (g) The Contractor shall remove supplies rejected or required to be corrected. However, the Contracting Officer may require or permit correction in place, promptly after notice, by and at the expense of the Contractor. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance corrected or rejected supplies without disclosing the former rejection or requirement for correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken. (h) (h) If the Contractor fails to promptly remove, replace, or correct rejected supplies that are required to be removed or to be replaced or corrected, the Government may either (1)by contract or otherwise, remove, replace, or correct the supplies and charge the cost to the Contractor or (2) terminate the contract for default. Unless the Contractor corrects or replaces the supplies within the delivery schedule, the Contracting Officer may require their delivery and make an equitable price reduction. Failure to agree to a price reduction shall be a dispute. (i) (i) (j) (j) The Government shall accept or reject supplies as promptly as practicable after delivery, unless otherwise provided in the contract. Government failure to inspect and accept or reject the supplies shall not relieve the Contractor from responsibility, nor impose liability on the Government, for nonconforming supplies. (k) (k) Inspections and tests by the Government do not relieve the Contractor of responsibility for defects or other failures to meet contract requirements discovered before acceptance. Acceptance shall be conclusive, except for latent defects, fraud, gross mistakes amounting to fraud, or as otherwise provided in the contract. (l) (l) If acceptance is not conclusive for any of the reasons in paragraph (k) hereof, the Government, in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law, or under other provisions of this contract, shall have the right to require the Contractor (1)at no increase in contract price, to correct or replace the defective or nonconforming supplies at the original point of delivery or at the Contractor’s plant at the Contracting Officer’s election, and in accordance with a reasonable delivery schedule as may be agreed upon between the Contractor and the Contracting Officer; provided, that the Contracting Officer may require a reduction in contract price if the Contractor fails to meet such delivery schedule, or (2) within a reasonable time after receipt by the Contractor of notice of defects or nonconformance, to repay such portion of the contract as is equitable under the circumstances if the Contracting Officer elects not to require correction or replacement. When supplies are returned to the Contractor, the Contractor shall bear the transportation cost from the original point of delivery to the Contractor’s plant and return to the original point when that point is not the Contractor’s plant. If the Contractor fails to perform or act as required in paragraph (l)(1) or (l)(2) of this clause and does not cure such failure within a period of 10 days (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may authorize in writing) after receipt of notice from the Contracting Officer specifying such failure, the Government shall have the right by contract or otherwise to replace or correct such supplies and charge to the Contractor the cost occasioned the Government thereby.
53.206 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 18.2 - Emergency Acquisition Flexibilities No subsections found.
5.101 Methods of disseminating information. (a) (a) As required by the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(e)) and the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 1708), contracting officers must disseminate information on proposed contract actions as follows: (b) (b) In addition, one or more of the following methods may be used:
14.501 General. (a) (a) Step one consists of the request for, submission, evaluation, and (if necessary) discussion of a technical proposal. No pricing is involved. The objective is to determine the acceptability of the supplies or services offered. As used in this context, the word "technical" has a broad connotation and includes, among other things, the engineering approach, special manufacturing processes, and special testing techniques. It is the proper step for clarification of questions relating to technical requirements. Conformity to the technical requirements is resolved in this step, but not responsibility as defined in 9.1. (b) (b) Step two involves the submission of sealed priced bids by those who submitted acceptable technical proposals in step one. Bids submitted in step two are evaluated and the awards made in accordance with subparts  14.3 and 14.4.
49.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
1.110 Positive law codification. (a) (a) Public	Law 107-217 revised, codified, and enacted as title 40, United States	Code, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, certain general and	permanent laws of the United States. (b) (b) Public Law	111-350 revised, codified, and enacted as title 41, United States	Code, Public Contracts, certain general and permanent laws of the	United States. (c) (c) The following	table provides cross references between the historical titles of	the acts, and the current reference in title 40 or title 41.
28.106-6 Furnishing information. (a) (a) The surety on the bond, upon its written request, may be furnished information on the progress of the work, payments, and the estimated percentage of completion, concerning the contract for which the bond was furnished. (b) (b) When a payment bond has been provided, the contracting officer shall, upon request, furnish the name and address of the surety or sureties to any subcontractor or supplier who has furnished or been requested to furnish labor or material for the contract. In addition, general information concerning the work progress, payments, and the estimated percentage of completion may be furnished to persons who have provided labor or materials and have not been paid. (c) (c) When a payment bond has been provided for a contract, the head of the agency or designee shall furnish a certified copy of the bond and the contract for which it was given to any person who makes a request therefor and who furnishes an affidavit that the requestor has supplied labor or materials for such work and payment therefor has not been made or that the requestor is being sued on such bond. The person who makes the request shall be required to pay such costs of preparation as determined by the head of the agency or designee to be reasonable and appropriate (see 40 U.S.C. 3133). (d) (d) Section 806(a)(2) of Public Law 102-190, as amended by sections 2091 and 8105 of Public Law 103-355 (10 U.S.C. 4601 note prec.), requires that the Federal Government provide information to subcontractors on payment bonds under contracts for other than commercial products or commercial services as defined in subpart  2.1. Upon the written or oral request of a subcontractor/supplier, or prospective subcontractor/supplier, under a contract with respect to which a payment bond has been furnished pursuant to the Bonds statute, the contracting officer shall promptly provide to the requester, either orally or in writing, as appropriate, any of the following:
24.202 Prohibitions. (a) (a) A proposal in the possession or control of the Government, submitted in response to a competitive solicitation, shall not be made available to any person under the Freedom of Information Act. This prohibition does not apply to a proposal, or any part of a proposal, that is set forth or incorporated by reference in a contract between the Government and the contractor that submitted the proposal. (See 10 U.S.C. 3309 and 41 U.S.C. 4702.) (b) (b) No agency shall disclose any information obtained pursuant to 15.403-3(b) that is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. (See 10 U.S.C. 3705(c)(3) and 41 U.S.C. 3505(b)(3).) (c) (c) A dispute resolution communication that is between a neutral person and a party to alternative dispute resolution proceedings, and that may not be disclosed under 5 U.S.C.574, is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3)).
22.2100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
46.707 Pricing aspects of fixed-price incentive contract warranties. No subsections found.
Subpart 23.9 - Reserved No subsections found.
36.213-3 Invitations for bids. (a) (a) Invitations for bids for construction shall allow sufficient time for bid preparation (i.e., the period of time between the date invitations are distributed and the date set for opening of bids) (but see 5.203 and 14.202-1) to allow bidders an adequate opportunity to prepare and submit their bids, giving due regard to the construction season and the time necessary for bidders to inspect the site, obtain subcontract bids, examine data concerning the work, and prepare estimates based on plans and specifications. (b) (b) invitations for bids shall be prepared in accordance with subpart  14.2 and this section using the forms prescribed in part  53. (c) (c) Contracting officers should assure that each invitation for bids includes the following information, when applicable. The appropriate wage determination of the Secretary of Labor (see subpart  22.4), or, if the invitation for bids must be issued before the wage determination is received, a notice that the schedule of minimum wage rates to be paid under the contract will be issued as an amendment to the invitation for bids before the opening date for bids (see 14.208 and subpart  22.4). (d) (d) The contracting officer shall send invitations for bids to prospective bidders who requested them in response to the presolicitation notice, and should send them to other prospective bidders upon their specific request (see 5.102(a)).
8.705-4 Compliance with orders. (a) (a) The central nonprofit agency shall inform the ordering office of changes in lead time experienced by its AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies to minimize requests for extensions once the ordering office places an order. (b) (b) The ordering office shall grant a request by a central nonprofit agency or AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency for revision in the delivery or completion schedule, if feasible. If extension of the delivery or completion date is not feasible, the ordering office shall notify the appropriate central nonprofit agency and request that it reallocate the order, or grant a purchase exception authorizing acquisition from commercial sources. (c) (c) When an AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency fails to perform under the terms of an order, the ordering office shall make every effort to resolve the noncompliance with the nonprofit agency involved and to negotiate an adjustment before taking action to cancel the order. If the problem cannot be resolved with the nonprofit agency, the ordering office shall refer the matter for resolution first to the central nonprofit agency and then, if necessary, to the Committee. (d) (d) When, after complying with 8.705-4(c), the ordering office determines that it must cancel an order, it shall notify the central nonprofit agency and, if practical, request a reallocation of the order. When the central nonprofit agency cannot reallocate the order, it shall grant a purchase exception permitting use of commercial sources, subject to approval by the Committee when the value of the purchase exception is $25,000 or more.
52.203-15 Whistleblower Protections	Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. (a) (a) The	Contractor shall post notice of employees rights and remedies for	whistleblower protections provided under section 1553 of the American	Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery	Act). (b) (b) The Contractor	shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph	(b), in all subcontracts that are funded in whole or in part with	Recovery Act funds.
50.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) (b) (b) Implements SAFETY Act liability protections to promote development and use of anti-terrorism technologies.
3.803 Exceptions. (a) (a) The prohibition of paragraph 3.802(a) does not apply under the following conditions: (b) (b) Only those communications and services expressly authorized by paragraph (a) of this section are permitted. (c) (c) The disclosure requirements of paragraph 3.802(b) do not apply with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.
40.200 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart provides policies and procedures to implement security prohibitions and exclusions that restrict Federal agencies from procuring, obtaining, or using certain products, services, or sources. (b) (b) The following prohibitions and exclusions are implemented in this subpart: (c) (c) Additional security prohibitions and exclusions are found at subparts 4.20 through 4.23 and 25.7.
19.805-2 Procedures. (a) (a) Offers shall be solicited from those sources identified in accordance with 19.804-3. (b) (b) The SBA will determine the eligibility of the apparent successful offeror. Eligibility is based on section 8(a) program criteria (see 13 CFR 124.501(g) and 19.816(c)). (c) (c) Any party with information questioning the eligibility of an 8(a) participant to continue participation in the 8(a) program or for the purposes of a specific 8(a) award may submit such information to the SBA in accordance with 13 CFR 124.112(c). (d) (d)
Subpart 30.2 - CAS Program Requirements No subsections found.
Subchapter D - Socioeconomic Programs No subsections found.
52.213-4 Terms and Conditions—Simplified Acquisitions (Other Than Commercial Products and Commercial Services). (a) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses that are incorporated by reference: (b) (b) The Contractor shall comply with the following FAR clauses, incorporated by reference, unless the circumstances do not apply: (c) (c) FAR 52.252-2, Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998). This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): (d) (d) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall tender for acceptance only those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. The Government must exercise its postacceptance rights- (e) (e) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence, such as acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (f) (f) Termination for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges that the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government, using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred that reasonably could have been avoided. (g) (g) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (h) (h) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract.
Subpart 25.10 - Additional Foreign Acquisition Regulations No subsections found.
26.403 Procedures. (a) (a) In accordance with the Federal Food Donation Act of 2008 an executive agency shall comply with the following:
11.401 General. (a) (a) The time of delivery or performance is an essential contract element and shall be clearly stated in solicitations. Contracting officers shall ensure that delivery or performance schedules are realistic and meet the requirements of the acquisition. Schedules that are unnecessarily short or difficult to attain- (b) (b) Solicitations shall, except when clearly unnecessary, inform bidders or offerors of the basis on which their bids or proposals will be evaluated with respect to time of delivery or performance. (c) (c) If timely delivery or performance is unusually important to the Government, liquidated damages clauses may be used (see subpart  11.5).
Subpart 19.15 - Women-Owned Small Business Program. No subsections found.
Subpart 12.6 - Streamlined Procedures for Evaluation and Solicitation for Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
37.113 Severance payments to foreign nationals. No subsections found.
52.232-10 Payments under Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts. (a) (a) Estimates shall be made monthly of the amount and value of the work and services performed by the Contractor under this contract which meet the standards of quality established under this contract. The estimates, along with any supporting data required by the Contracting Officer, shall be prepared by the Contractor and submitted along with its voucher. (b) (b) After receipt of each substantiated voucher, the Government shall pay the voucher as approved by the Contracting Officer or authorized representative. The Contracting Officer shall require a withholding from amounts due under paragraph (a) of this clause of up to 10 percent only if the Contracting Officer determines that such a withholding is necessary to protect the Government’s interest and ensure satisfactory completion of the contract. The amount withheld shall be determined based upon the Contractor’s performance record under this contract. Whenever the Contracting Officer determines that the work is substantially complete and that the amount retained is in excess of the amount adequate for the protection of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall release the excess amount to the Contractor. (c) (c) Upon satisfactory completion by the Contractor and final acceptance by the Contracting Officer of all the work done by the Contractor under the "Statement of Architect-Engineer Services", the Contractor will be paid the unpaid balance of any money due for work under the statement, including all withheld amounts. (d) (d) Before final payment under the contract, or before settlement upon termination of the contract, and as a condition precedent thereto, the Contractor shall execute and deliver to the Contracting Officer a release of all claims against the Government arising under or by virtue of this contract, other than any claims that are specifically excepted by the Contractor from the operation of the release in amounts stated in the release. (e) (e) Notwithstanding any other provision in this contract, and specifically paragraph (b) of this clause, progress payments shall not exceed 80 percent on work accomplished on undefinitized contract actions. A "contract action" is any action resulting in a contract, as defined in FAR subpart  2.1, including contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but not including contract modifications that are within the scope and under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications issued pursuant to the Changes clause, or funding and other administrative changes.
Subpart 2.1 - Definitions No subsections found.
52.229-7 Taxes-Fixed-Price Contracts with Foreign Governments. (a) (a) "Contract date," as used in this clause, means the date set for bid opening or, if this is a negotiated contract or a modification, the effective date of this contract or modification. (b) (b) (c) (c) If, after the contract date, the Government of the United States and the Government of ______ [insert name of the foreign government] agree that any tax or duty included in the contract price shall not apply to expenditures by the United States in ________ [insert name of country], the contract price shall be reduced accordingly. (d) (d) No adjustment shall be made in the contract price under this clause unless the amount of the adjustment exceeds $250.
47.303-2 F.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility" means free of expense to the Government delivered on board the indicated type of conveyance of the carrier (or of the Government if specified) at the designated facility, on the named street or highway, in the city, county, and State from which the shipment will be made. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor’s responsibilities are the same as those listed in 47.303-1(b). (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-30, F.o.b. Origin, Contractor’s Facility, when the delivery term is f.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility.
52.245-3 [Reserved] No subsections found.
53.107  Obtaining forms. No subsections found.
49.301 General. No subsections found.
32.501-1 Customary progress payment rates. (a) (a) The customary progress payment rate is 80 percent, applicable to the total costs of performing the contract. The customary rate for contracts with small business concerns is 85 percent. (b) (b) The contracting officer must- (c) (c) When advance payments and progress payments are authorized under the same contract, the contracting officer must not authorize a progress payment rate higher than the customary rate. (d) (d) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3804(b) and 41 U.S.C. 4504(b), the limit for progress payments is 80 percent on work accomplished under undefinitized contract actions. The contracting officer must not authorize a higher rate under unusual progress payments or other customary progress payments for the undefinitized actions.
31.205-48 Research and development costs. No subsections found.
27.305 Administration of patent rights clauses. No subsections found.
22.801 Definitions. No subsections found.
Subpart 44.1 - General No subsections found.
47.208 Report of shipment (REPSHIP). No subsections found.
9.701 Definition. No subsections found.
25.302-3 Applicability. (a) (a) This section applies to contracts that require performance outside the United States- (b) (b) These designations can	be found at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pacc/cc/designated_areas_of_other_significant_military_operations.html and http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pacc/cc/designated_areas_of_combat_operations.html. (c) (c) When the applicability requirements of this subsection are met, contractors and subcontractors must comply with 32 CFR part 159, whether the contract is for the performance of private security functions as a primary deliverable or the provision of private security functions is ancillary to the stated deliverables. (d) (d) The requirements of section 25.302 shall not apply to-
45.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
1.707 Signatory authority. No subsections found.
4.1803 Verifying CAGE codes prior to award. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall verify the offeror’s CAGE code by reviewing the entity’s registration in the System for Award Management (SAM). Active registrations in SAM have had the associated CAGE codes verified. (b) (b) For entities not	required to be registered in SAM, the contracting officer shall validate the	CAGE code using the CAGE code search feature at https://cage.dla.mil.
25.504 Evaluation examples. No subsections found.
53.241 [Reserved] No subsections found.
9.508 Examples. (a) (a) Company A agrees to provide systems engineering and technical direction for the Navy on the powerplant for a group of submarines (i.e., turbines, drive shafts, propellers, etc.). Company A should not be allowed to supply any powerplant components. Company A can, however, supply components of the submarine unrelated to the powerplant (e.g., fire control, navigation, etc.). In this example, the system is the powerplant, not the submarine, and the ban on supplying components is limited to those for the system only. (b) (b) Company A is the systems engineering and technical direction contractor for system X. After some progress, but before completion, the system is canceled. Later, system Y is developed to achieve the same purposes as system X, but in a fundamentally different fashion. Company B is the systems engineering and technical direction contractor for system Y. Company A may supply system Y or its components. (c) (c) Company A develops new electronic equipment and, as a result of this development, prepares specifications. Company A may supply the equipment. (d) (d) XYZ Tool Company and PQR Machinery Company, representing the American Tool Institute, work under Government supervision and control to refine specifications or to clarify the requirements of a specific acquisition. These companies may supply the item. (e) (e) Before an acquisition for information technology is conducted, Company A is awarded a contract to prepare data system specifications and equipment performance criteria to be used as the basis for the equipment competition. Since the specifications are the basis for selection of commercial hardware, a potential conflict of interest exists. Company A should be excluded from the initial follow-on information technology hardware acquisition. (f) (f) Company A receives a contract to define the detailed performance characteristics an agency will require for purchasing rocket fuels. Company A has not developed the particular fuels. When the definition contract is awarded, it is clear to both parties that the agency will use the performance characteristics arrived at to choose competitively a contractor to develop or produce the fuels. Company A may not be awarded this follow-on contract. (g) (g) Company A receives a contract to prepare a detailed plan for scientific and technical training of an agency’s personnel. It suggests a curriculum that the agency endorses and incorporates in its request for proposals to institutions to establish and conduct the training. Company A may not be awarded a contract to conduct the training. (h) (h) Company A is selected to study the use of lasers in communications. The agency intends to ask that firms doing research in the field make proprietary information available to Company A. The contract must require Company A to- (i) (i) An agency that regulates an industry wishes to develop a system for evaluating and processing license applications. Contractor X helps develop the system and process the applications. Contractor X should be prohibited from acting as a consultant to any of the applicants during its period of performance and for a reasonable period thereafter.
18.108 Qualifications requirements. No subsections found.
Subpart 46.8 - Contractor Liability for Loss of or Damage to Property of the Government No subsections found.
47.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
22.406-9 Withholding from or suspension of contract payments. (a) (a) Withholding from contract payments. If the contracting officer believes a violation exists (see 22.406-8), or upon request of the Department of Labor, the contracting officer must withhold from payments due the contractor an amount equal to the estimated wage underpayment and estimated liquidated damages due the United States under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards statute. (See 22.302.) (b) (b) Suspension of contract payments. If a contractor or subcontractor fails or refuses to comply with the labor standards clauses of the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute and related statutes, the agency, upon its own action or upon the written request of the Department of Labor, must suspend any further payment, advance, or guarantee of funds until the violations cease or until the agency has withheld sufficient funds to compensate employees for back wages, and to cover any liquidated damages due. (c) (c) Disposition of contract payments withheld or suspended-
32.503-8 Liquidation rates-ordinary method. No subsections found.
52.222 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.108 Settlement of subcontract settlement proposals. No subsections found.
19.1505 Set-aside procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer- (b) (b) For requirements in NAICS codes designated by SBA as underrepresented, a contracting officer may restrict competition to EDWOSB concerns if the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation based on market research that- (c) (c) A contracting officer may restrict competition to WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program (including EDWOSB concerns), for requirements in NAICS codes designated by SBA as substantially underrepresented if there is a reasonable expectation based on market research that- (d) (d) An EDWOSB or WOSB concern may submit an offer under an EDWOSB or WOSB set-aside when the offeror— (e) (e) The contracting officer shall verify that offers received are eligible for consideration for award by checking SAM to see if the EDWOSB or WOSB concern is designated as a certified concern or checking DSBS for a pending application for certification. (f) (f) Prior to award, the contracting officer shall verify the apparently successful offeror is certified in SAM, or has a pending application for certification in DSBS. If the apparently successful offeror's EDWOSB or WOSB certification is pending in DSBS, the contracting officer shall notify SBA's Director/Government Contracting by email at WOSBpendingcertification@sba.gov, and request SBA's status determination. The contracting officer shall provide SBA with the offeror's name, unique entity identifier, type of set-aside, NAICS code, and solicitation number. (i) (i) The SBA procurement center representative (PCR) may recommend use of the WOSB Program. If the contracting officer rejects a recommendation by SBA's PCR—
33.203 Applicability. (a) (a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, this part applies to any express or implied contract covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (b) (b) This subpart does not apply to any contract with- (c) (c) This part applies to all disputes with respect to contracting officer decisions on matters "arising under" or "relating to" a contract. Agency Boards of Contract Appeals (BCAs) authorized under the Disputes statute continue to have all of the authority they possessed before the Disputes statute with respect to disputes arising under a contract, as well as authority to decide disputes relating to a contract. The clause at 52.233-1, Disputes, Disputes, recognizes the "all disputes" authority established by the Disputes statute and states certain requirements and limitations of the Disputes statute for the guidance of contractors and contracting agencies. The clause is not intended to affect the rights and obligations of the parties as provided by the Disputes statute or to constrain the authority of the statutory agency BCAs in the handling and deciding of contractor appeals under the Disputes statute.
14.409 Information to bidders. No subsections found.
52.247-23 Contractor Liability for Loss of and/or Damage to Household Goods. (a) (a) Except when loss and/or damage arise out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor, the Contractor shall be liable to the owner for the loss of and/or damage to any article while being- (b) (b) The Contractor shall be liable for loss and/or damage discovered by the owner if written notice of such loss and/or damage is dispatched to the Contractor not later than 75 days following the date of delivery. (c) (c) The Contractor shall indemnify the owner of the goods at a rate of ___ cents per pound per article.
14.201-1 Uniform contract format. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall prepare invitations for bids and contracts using the uniform contract format outlined in Table 14-1 to the maximum practicable extent. The use of the format facilitates preparation of the solicitation and contract as well as reference to, and use of, those documents by bidders and contractors. It need not be used for acquisition of the following: (b) (b) Information suitable for inclusion in invitations for bids under the uniform contract format shall also be included in invitations for bids not subject to that format if applicable. (c) (c) Solicitations to which the uniform contract format applies shall include PartsI, II, III, and IV. If any section of the uniform contract format does not apply, the contracting officer should so mark that section in the solicitation. Upon award, the contracting officer shall not physically include PartIV in the resulting contract, but shall retain it in the contract file. (See 14.201(c).) Award by acceptance of a bid on the award portion of Standard Form 33, Solicitation, Offer and Award (SF 33), Standard Form 26, Award/Contract (SF 26), or Standard Form 1447, Solicitation/Contract (SF 1447), incorporates Section K, Representations, certifications, and other statements of bidders, in the resultant contract even though not physically attached. The representations and certifications shall be incorporated by reference in the contract by using 52.204-19 (see 4.1202(b)) or for acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services see 52.212-4(v).
16.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
7.401 Acquisition considerations. (a) (a) (b) (b) (c) (c)The analysis in paragraph (a) is not required—
32.1103 Applicability. (a) (a) The office making payment under a contract that requires payment by EFT, loses the ability to release payment by EFT. To the extent authorized by 31 CFR Part 208, the payment office shall make necessary payments pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of the clause at either 52.232-33 or 52.232-34 until such time as it can make EFT payments; (b) (b) The payment is to be received by or on behalf of the contractor outside the United States and Puerto Rico (but see 32.1106(b)); (c) (c) A contract is paid in other than United States currency (but see 32.1106(b)); (d) (d) Payment by EFT under a classified contract could compromise the safeguarding of classified information or national security, or arrangements for appropriate EFT payments would be impractical due to security considerations; (e) (e) A contract is awarded by a deployed contracting officer in the course of military operations, including, but not limited to, contingency operations as defined in 2.101, or a contract is awarded by any contracting officer in the conduct of emergency operations, such as responses to natural disasters or national or civil emergencies, if- (f) (f) The agency does not expect to make more than one payment to the same recipient within a one-year period; (g) (g) An agency’s need for supplies and services is of such unusual and compelling urgency that the Government would be seriously injured unless payment is made by a method other than EFT; (h) (h) There is only one source for supplies and services and the Government would be seriously injured unless payment is made by a method other than EFT; or (i) (i) Otherwise authorized by Department of the Treasury Regulations at 31 CFR Part 208.
25.403 World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement and Free Trade Agreements. (a) (a) Eligible products from WTO GPA and FTA countries are entitled to the nondiscriminatory treatment specified in 25.402(a)(1). The WTO GPA and FTAs specify procurement procedures designed to ensure fairness (see 25.408). (b) (b) Thresholds. (c) (c) Purchase restriction.
37.603 Performance standards. (a) (a) Performance standards establish the performance level required by the Government to meet the contract requirements. The standards shall be measurable and structured to permit an assessment of the contractor’s performance. (b) (b) When offerors propose performance standards in response to a SOO, agencies shall evaluate the proposed standards to determine if they meet agency needs.
49.305-2 Construction contracts. (a) (a) The percentage of completion basis refers to the contractor’s total effort and not solely to the actual construction work. Generally, the effort of a contractor under a cost-reimbursement construction or professional services contract can be segregated into factors such as- (b) (b) Each of the applicable factors in paragraph (a) of this section shall be assigned a weighted value depending on its importance and difficulty. The total weight value of all factors should be easily divisible (e.g., by 100) to determine percentages. The percentage of completion of each factor must be established based upon the specific facts of each contract. When totaled, the percentage of completion of each factor applied to the weighted value of each factor results in the overall percentage of contract completion. The percentage of completion is then applied to the total contract fee or to the fee applicable to the terminated portion of the contract to arrive at an equitable adjustment.
12.401 General. (a) (a) Guidance regarding tailoring of the paragraphs in the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, when the paragraphs do not reflect the customary practice for a particular market; and (b) (b) Guidance on the administration of contracts for commercial products or commercial services in those areas where the terms and conditions in 52.212-4 differ substantially from those contained elsewhere in the FAR.
19.1402 Applicability. No subsections found.
47.104-4 Contract clauses. (a) (a) In order to ensure the application of 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates, where authorized (see 47.104(b)), insert the clause at 52.247-1, Commercial Bill of Lading Notations, in solicitations and contracts when the contracts will be- (b) (b) The contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.247-1, Commercial Bill of Lading Notations, in solicitations and contracts made at or below the simplified acquisition threshold when it is contemplated that the delivery terms will be f.o.b. origin.
53.209 Contractor qualifications. No subsections found.
52.246-26 Reporting Nonconforming Items. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) The Contractor shall— (c) (c) The Contractor shall not submit a report as required by paragraph (b)(4) of this clause, if— (d) (d) Reports submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause shall not include— (e) (e) Additional guidance on the use of GIDEP is provided at  https://www.gidep.org/login?returnUrl=%2Fdashboard. (f) (f) If this is a contract with the Department of Defense, as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of section 818 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81), the Contractor or subcontractor that provides a written report or notification under this clause that the end item, component, part, or material contained electronic parts (i.e., an integrated circuit, a discrete electronic component (including, but not limited to, a transistor, capacitor, resistor, or diode), or a circuit assembly)) that are counterfeit electronic parts or suspect counterfeit electronic parts shall not be subject to civil liability on the basis of such reporting, provided that the Contractor or any subcontractor made a reasonable effort to determine that the report was factual. (g) (g) Subcontracts.
3.104-7 Violations or possible violations. (a) (a) A contracting officer who receives or obtains information of a violation or possible violation of 41 U.S.C. 2102, 2103, or 2104 (see 3.104-3) must determine if the reported violation or possible violation has any impact on the pending award or selection of the contractor. (b) (b) The HCA must review all information available and, in accordance with agency procedures, take appropriate action, such as— (c) (c) Before concluding that an offeror, contractor, or person has violated 41 U.S.C. chapter 21, the HCA may consider that the interests of the Government are best served by requesting information from appropriate parties regarding the violation or possible violation. (d) (d) If the HCA concludes that 41 U.S.C. chapter 21 has been violated, the HCA may direct the contracting officer to- (e) (e) The HCA should recommend or direct an administrative or contractual remedy commensurate with the severity and effect of the violation. (f) (f) If the HCA determines that urgent and compelling circumstances justify an award, or award is otherwise in the interests of the Government, the HCA, in accordance with agency procedures, may authorize the contracting officer to award the contract or execute the contract modification after notifying the agency head. (g) (g) The HCA may delegate his or her authority under this subsection to an individual at least one organizational level above the contracting officer and of General Officer, Flag, Senior Executive Service, or equivalent rank.
27.305-2 Administration by the Government. (a) (a) Agencies should establish and maintain appropriate follow-up procedures to protect the Government’s interest and to check that subject inventions are identified and disclosed, and when appropriate, patent applications are filed, and that the Government’s rights therein are established and protected. Follow-up activities for contracts that include a clause referenced in 27.304-2 should be coordinated with the appropriate agency. (b) (b) (c) (c) Contracting activities should establish appropriate procedures to detect and correct failures by the contractor to comply with its obligations under the patent rights clauses, such as failures to disclose and report subject inventions, both during and after contract performance. Government effort to review and correct contractor compliance with its patent rights obligations should be directed primarily toward contracts that are more likely to result in subject inventions significant in number or quality. These contracts include contracts of a research, developmental, or experimental nature; contracts of a large dollar amount; and any other contracts when there is reason to believe the contractor may not be complying with its contractual obligations. Other contracts may be reviewed using a spot-check method, as feasible. Appropriate follow-up procedures and activities may include the investigation or review of selected contracts or contractors by those qualified in patent and technical matters to detect failures to comply with contract obligations. (d) (d) Follow-up activities should include, where appropriate, use of Government patent personnel- (e) (e) If a contractor or subcontractor does not have a clear understanding of its obligations under the clause, or its procedures for complying with the clause are deficient, the contracting officer should explain to the contractor its obligations. The withholding of payments provision (if any) of the patent rights clause may be invoked if the contractor fails to meet the obligations required by the patents rights clause. Significant or repeated failures by a contractor to comply with the patent rights obligation in its contracts shall be documented and made a part of the general file (see 4.801(c)(3)).
3.904-1 Procedures for filing complaints. No subsections found.
32.1004 Procedures. (a) (a) Establishing performance bases. (b) (b) Establishing performance-based finance payment amounts. (c) (c) Instructions for multiple appropriations. If there is more than one appropriation account (or subaccount) funding payments on the contract, the contracting officer shall provide instructions to the Government payment office for distribution of financing payments to the respective funds accounts. Distribution instructions shall be consistent with the contract’s liquidation provisions. (d) (d) Liquidating performance-based finance payments. Performance-based amounts shall be liquidated by deducting a percentage or a designated dollar amount from the delivery payments. The contracting officer shall specify the liquidation rate or designated dollar amount in the contract. The method of liquidation shall ensure complete liquidation no later than final payment. (e) (e) Competitive negotiated solicitations.
52.247-56 Transit Arrangements. No subsections found.
Subpart 3.6 - Contracts with Government Employees or Organizations Owned or Controlled by Them No subsections found.
52.219-23 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.227-16 Additional Data Requirements. (a) (a) In addition to the data (as defined in the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General clause or other equivalent included in this contract) specified elsewhere in this contract to be delivered, the Contracting Officer may, at any time during contract performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract, order any data first produced or specifically used in the performance of this contract. (b) (b) The Rights in Data-General clause or other equivalent included in this contract is applicable to all data ordered under this Additional Data Requirements clause. Nothing contained in this clause shall require the Contractor to deliver any data the withholding of which is authorized by the Rights in Data-General or other equivalent clause of this contract, or data which are specifically identified in this contract as not subject to this clause. (c) (c) When data are to be delivered under this clause, the Contractor will be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery. (d) (d) The Contracting Officer may release the Contractor from the requirements of this clause for specifically identified data items at any time during the 3-year period set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause.
52.244-4 Subcontractors and Outside Associates and Consultants (Architect-Engineer Services). No subsections found.
53.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Prescribes standard forms (SF’s) and references optional forms (OF’s) and agency-prescribed forms for use in acquisition; and (b) (b) Contains requirements and information generally applicable to the forms.
8.405-4 Price reductions. No subsections found.
49.206 Settlement proposals. No subsections found.
52.225-26 Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Applicability. If this contract is performed both in a designated area and in an area that is not designated, the clause only applies to performance in the following designated areas- (c) (c) Requirements. The Contractor is required to- (d) (d) Remedies. In addition to other remedies available to the Government- (e) (e) Rule of construction. The duty of the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this clause shall not be reduced or diminished by the failure of a higher- or lower-tier Contractor or subcontractor to comply with the clause requirements or by a failure of the contracting activity to provide required oversight. (f) (f) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all subcontracts that will be performed outside the United States in areas of-
27.202 Royalties. No subsections found.
35.002 General. No subsections found.
13.305-3 Conditions for use. (a) (a) The imprest fund transaction does not exceed $500 or such other limits as have been approved by the agency head; (b) (b) The third party draft transaction does not exceed $2,500, unless authorized at a higher level in accordance with Treasury restrictions; (c) (c) The use of imprest funds or third party drafts is considered to be advantageous to the Government; and (d) (d) The use of imprest funds or third party drafts for the transaction otherwise complies with any additional conditions established by agencies and with the policies and regulations referenced in 13.305-1.
Subpart 45.6 - Reporting, Reutilization, and Disposal No subsections found.
31.201-5 Credits. No subsections found.
53.234 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.112-1 Partial payments. (a) (a) General. If the contract authorizes partial payments on settlement proposals before settlement, a prime contractor may request them on the form prescribed in 49.602-4 at any time after submission of interim or final settlement proposals. The Government will process applications for partial payments promptly. A subcontractor shall submit its application through the prime contractor which shall attach its own invoice and recommendations to the subcontractor’s application. Partial payments to a subcontractor shall be made only through the prime contractor and only after the prime contractor has submitted its interim or final settlement proposal. Except for undelivered acceptable finished products, partial payments shall not be made for profit or fee claimed under the terminated portion of the contract. In exercising discretion on the extent of partial payments to be made, the TCO shall consider the diligence of the contractor in settling with subcontractors and in preparing its own settlement proposal. (b) (b) Amount of partial payment. Before approving any partial payment, the TCO shall obtain any desired accounting, engineering, or other specialized reviews of the data submitted in support of the contractor’s settlement proposal. If the reviews and the TCO’s examination of the data indicate that the requested partial payment is proper, reasonable payments may be authorized in the discretion of the TCO up to- (c) (c) Recognition of assignments. When an assignment of claims has been made under the contract, the Government shall not make partial payments to other than the assignee unless the parties to the assignment consent in writing (see 32.805(e)). (d) (d) Security for partial payments. If any partial payment is made for completed end items or for costs of termination inventory, the TCO shall protect the Government’s interest. This shall be done by obtaining title to the completed end items or termination inventory, or by the creation of a lien in favor of the Government, paramount to all other liens, on the completed end items or termination inventory, or by other appropriate means. (e) (e) Deductions in computing amount of partial	payments. The TCO shall deduct from the gross amount of any partial	payment otherwise payable under 49.112-1(b)- (f) (f) Limitation on total amount. The total amount of all partial payments shall not exceed the amount that will, in the opinion of the TCO, become due to the contractor because of the termination. (g) (g) Effect of overpayment. If the total of partial payments exceeds the amount finally determined due on the settlement proposal, the contractor shall repay the excess to the Government on demand, together with interest. The interest shall be computed at the rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury under 50 U.S.C. App.1215(b)(2) from the date the excess payment was received by the contractor to the date of repayment. However, interest will not be charged for any- (h) (h) Certification and approval of partial payments.
1.102-1 Discussion. (a) (a) Introduction. The statement of Guiding Principles for the Federal Acquisition System (System) represents a concise statement designed to be user-friendly for all participants in Government acquisition. The following discussion of the principles is provided in order to illuminate the meaning of the terms and phrases used. The framework for the System includes the Guiding Principles for the System and the supporting policies and procedures in the FAR. (b) (b) Vision. All participants in the System are responsible for making acquisition decisions that deliver the best value product or service to the customer. Best value must be viewed from a broad perspective and is achieved by balancing the many competing interests in the System. The result is a system which works better and costs less.
Subpart 29.2 - Federal Excise Taxes No subsections found.
19.804-5 Basic ordering agreements and blanket purchase agreements. (a) (a) The contracting office shall submit an offering letter for, and SBA must accept, each order under a basic ordering agreement (BOA) or a blanket purchase agreement (BPA) issued under part 13 (see 13.303), in addition to the agency offering and SBA accepting the BOA or BPA itself. (b) (b) SBA will not accept for award on a sole-source basis any order that would cause the total dollar amount of orders issued under a specific BOA or BPA to exceed the competitive threshold amount in 19.805-1. (c) (c) Once an 8(a) participant's program term expires, the participant otherwise exits the 8(a) program, or becomes other than small for the NAICS code assigned under the BOA or the BPA, SBA will not accept new orders under the BOA or BPA for the participant.
Subpart 31.5 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) (c) (c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is for supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas, or when the contracting officer has applied part  19 in accordance with 19.000(b)(1)(ii). Check all that apply. (d) (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246- (e) (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 http://uscode.house.gov/  U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) (f) Buy American Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American-Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) (g) (g) (h) (h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals– (i) (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (j) (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly- (k) (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Labor Standards (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.] (l) (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) ( 26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to the SAM to be eligible for award.) (m) (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (o) (o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran. (p) (p) Ownership or Control of Offeror. (Applies in all solicitations when there is a requirement to be registered in SAM or a requirement to have a unique entity identifier in the solicitation). (q) (q) Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law. (r) (r) Predecessor of Offeror. (Applies in all solicitations that include the provision at 52.204-16, Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting.) (s) (s) [Reserved]. (t) (t) Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals. Applies in all solicitations that require offerors to register in SAM (12.301(d)(1)). (u) (u) (v) (v) Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation. Section 889(a)(1)(A) and section 889 (a)(1)(B) of Public Law 115-232.
4.401 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.203-1 [Reserved] No subsections found.
15.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
9.406-1 General. (a) (a) It is the suspending and debarring official's responsibility to determine whether debarment is in the Government's interest. The suspending and debarring official may, in the public interest, debar a contractor for any of the causes in 9.406-3. The existence of a cause for debarment, however, does not necessarily require that the contractor be debarred; the seriousness of the contractor's acts or omissions and any remedial measures, mitigating factors, or aggravating factors should be considered in making any debarment decision. Before arriving at any debarment decision, the suspending and debarring official should consider factors such as the following (some of the factors below could apply to individuals such as contractors that are individuals, and are so marked): (b) (b) The existence or nonexistence of any aggravating or mitigating factors or remedial measures such as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section is not necessarily determinative of a contractor's present responsibility. Accordingly, if a cause for debarment exists, the contractor has the burden of demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the suspending and debarring official, its present responsibility and that debarment is not necessary. (c) (c) Debarment constitutes debarment of all divisions or other organizational elements of the contractor, unless the debarment decision is limited by its terms to specific divisions, organizational elements, or commodities. The suspending and debarring official may extend the debarment decision to include any affiliates of the contractor if they are— (d) (d) A contractor's debarment, or proposed debarment, shall be effective throughout the executive branch of the Government, unless the agency head or a designee (except see 26.505(e)) states in writing the compelling reasons justifying continued business dealings between that agency and the contractor. (e) (e)
4.1001 Policy. (a) (a) Line items are established to define deliverables or organize information about deliverables. Each line item describes characteristics for the item purchased, e.g., pricing, delivery, and funding information. (b) (b) Each line item may be subdivided into separate unique subsets (called subline items) to ease administration. If a line item has deliverable subline items, the line item is informational. Subline items differentiate between or among certain characteristics of the line item, such as colors or sizes, dates of delivery, destinations, or places of performance. Subline items are established to define deliverables or organize information about deliverables.
12.216 Unenforceability of unauthorized obligations. No subsections found.
26.504 Policy. (a) (a) No offeror other than an individual shall be considered a responsible source (see 9.104-1(g) and 19.602-1(a)(2)(i)) for a contract that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold, unless it agrees that it will provide a drug-free workplace by- (b) (b) No individual shall be awarded a contract of any dollar value unless that individual agrees not to engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance while performing the contract. (c) (c) For a contract of 30 days or more performance duration, the contractor shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days after contract award, unless the contracting officer agrees in writing that circumstances warrant a longer period of time to comply. Before granting such an extension, the contracting officer shall consider such factors as the number of contractor employees at the worksite, whether the contractor has or must develop a drug-free workplace program, and the number of contractor worksites. For contracts of less than 30 days performance duration, the contractor shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section as soon as possible, but in any case, by a date prior to when performance is expected to be completed.
Subpart 13.1 - Procedures No subsections found.
53.209-1 Responsible prospective contractors. (a) (a) SF 1403 (Rev. 01/2014), Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor (General). (b) (b) SF 1404 (Rev. 01/2014), Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Technical. (c) (c) SF 1405  (Rev. 01/2014), Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Production. (d) (d) SF 1406 (Rev. 01/2014), Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Quality Assurance. (e) (e) SF 1407 (Rev. 01/2014), Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Financial Capability. (f) (f) SF 1408 (Rev. 01/2014), Preaward Survey of Prospective Contractor-Accounting System.
52.230-7 Proposal Disclosure-Cost Accounting Practice Changes. No subsections found.
Subpart 11.8 - Testing No subsections found.
13.307 Forms. (a) (a) Commercial products and commercial services. For use of the SF 1449, Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Products and Commercial Services, see 12.204. (b) (b) Other than commercial products and commercial services. (c) (c) Forms used for both commercial and other than commercial products and commercial services. (d) (d) SF 44, Purchase Order-Invoice-Voucher, is a multipurpose pocket-size purchase order form that may be used as outlined in 13.306. (e) (e) SF 1165, Receipt for Cash-Subvoucher, or an agency purchase order form may be used for purchases using imprest funds or third party drafts.
4.1005-2 Exceptions. (a) (a) Indefinite-delivery contracts- (b) (b) Item description and PSC. These data elements are not required in the line item if there are associated deliverable subline items that include the actual detailed identification. When this exception applies, use a general narrative description for the line item. (c) (c) Single unit price or single total price. The requirement for a single unit price or single total price at the line item level does not apply if any of the following conditions are present:
52.216-13 [Reserved] No subsections found.
47.303-16 F.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of importation. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of importation" means free of expense to the Government delivered to the air carrier’s terminal at the point of importation specified in the contract. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-44, F.o.b. Designated Air Carrier’s Terminal, Point of Importation, when the delivery term is f.o.b. designated air carrier’s terminal, point of importation.
19.202-2 Locating small business sources. (a) (a) Before issuing solicitations, make every reasonable effort to find additional small business concerns (see 10.002(b)(2)). This effort should include contacting the agency small business specialist and SBA PCR (or, if a PCR is not assigned, see 19.402(a)). (b) (b) Publicize solicitations and contract awards through the Governmentwide point of entry (see subparts  5.2 and 5.3).
52.214-23 Late Submissions, Modifications, Revisions, and Withdrawals of Technical Proposals under Two-Step Sealed Bidding. (a) (a) Bidders are responsible for submitting technical proposals, and any modifications or revisions, so as to reach the Government office designated in the request for technical proposals by the time specified in the invitation for bids (IFB). If no time is specified in the IFB, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that bids or revisions are due. (b) (b) (c) (c) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the technical proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (d) (d) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that technical proposals cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of technical proposals by the exact time specified in the request for technical proposals, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the request for technical proposals, the time specified for receipt of technical proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the request for technical proposals on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (e) (e) Technical proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of technical proposals. If the request for technical proposals authorizes facsimile technical proposals, they may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of proposals, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.214-31, Facsimile Bids. A technical proposal may be withdrawn in person by a bidder or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of technical proposals, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the technical proposal.
4.705-2 Pay administration records. (a) (a) Payroll sheets, registers, or their equivalent, of salaries and wages paid to individual employees for each payroll period; change slips; and tax withholding statements: Retain 4 years. (b) (b) Clock cards or other time and attendance cards: Retain 2 years. (c) (c) Paid checks, receipts for wages paid in cash, or other evidence of payments for services rendered by employees: Retain 2 years.
32.402 General. (a) (a) A limitation on authority to grant advance payments under Pub.L.85-804 (50 U.S.C. 1431-1435) is described at 50.102-3(b)(4). (b) (b) Advance payments may be provided on any type of contract; however, the agency shall authorize advance payments sparingly. Except for the contracts described in 32.403(a) and (b), advance payment is the least preferred method of contract financing (see 32.106) and generally they should not be authorized if other types of financing are reasonably available to the contractor in adequate amounts. Loans and credit at excessive interest rates or other exorbitant charges, or loans from other Government agencies, are not considered reasonably available financing. (c) (c) If statutory requirements and standards for advance payment determinations are met, the contracting officer shall generally recommend that the agency authorize advance payments. (d) (d) If necessary, the agency may authorize advance payments in addition to progress or partial payments on the same contract (see 32.501-1(c)). (e) (e) Each agency that provides advance payments shall- (f) (f) If the contract provides for advance payments under Pub.L.85-804, the contracting officer shall ensure conformance with the requirements of 50.103-7.
15.208 Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals. (a) (a) Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any revisions, and modifications, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. Offerors may use any transmission method authorized by the solicitation (i.e., regular mail, electronic commerce, or facsimile). If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that proposals are due. (b) (b) (c) (c) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel. (d) (d) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that proposals cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation closing date, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (e) (e) Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. The contracting officer must document the contract file when oral withdrawals are made. One copy of withdrawn proposals should be retained in the contract file (see 4.803(a)(10)). Extra copies of the withdrawn proposals may be destroyed or returned to the offeror at the offeror’s request. Where practicable, electronically transmitted proposals that are withdrawn must be purged from primary and backup data storage systems after a copy is made for the file. Extremely bulky proposals must only be returned at the offeror’s request and expense. (f) (f) The contracting officer must promptly notify any offeror if its proposal, modification, or revision was received late, and must inform the offeror whether its proposal will be considered, unless contract award is imminent and the notice prescribed in 15.503(b) would suffice. (g) (g) Late proposals and modifications that are not considered must be held unopened, unless opened for identification, until after award and then retained with other unsuccessful proposals. (h) (h) If available, the following must be included in the contracting office files for each late proposal, modification, revision, or withdrawal:
6.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
17.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
3.904 Complaints. No subsections found.
27.202-4 Refund of royalties. No subsections found.
22.1301 Definitions. No subsections found.
46.316 Responsibility for supplies. No subsections found.
32.503-7 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.222-41 Service Contract Labor Standards. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Applicability. This contract is subject to the following provisions and to all other applicable provisions of 41 U.S.C. chapter 67, Service Contract Labor Standards, and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4). This clause does not apply to contracts or subcontracts administratively exempted by the Secretary of Labor or exempted by 41 U.S.C. 6702, as interpreted in Subpart C of 29 CFR Part 4. (c) (c) Compensation. (d) (d) Obligation to furnish fringe benefits. The Contractor or subcontractor may discharge the obligation to furnish fringe benefits specified in the attachment or determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this clause by furnishing equivalent combinations of bona fide fringe benefits, or by making equivalent or differential cash payments, only in accordance with Subpart D of 29 CFR Part 4. (e) (e) Minimum wage. In the absence of a minimum wage attachment for this contract, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any person performing work under this contract (regardless of whether the person is a service employee) less than the minimum wage specified by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of1938. Nothing in this clause shall relieve the Contractor or any subcontractor of any other obligation under law or contract for payment of a higher wage to any employee. (f) (f) Successor contracts. If this contract succeeds a contract subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute under which substantially the same services were furnished in the same locality and service employees were paid wages and fringe benefits provided for in a collective bargaining agreement, in the absence of the minimum wage attachment for this contract setting forth such collectively bargained wage rates and fringe benefits, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any service employee performing any of the contract work (regardless of whether or not such employee was employed under the predecessor contract), less than the wages and fringe benefits provided for in such collective bargaining agreement, to which such employee would have been entitled if employed under the predecessor contract, including accrued wages and fringe benefits and any prospective increases in wages and fringe benefits provided for under such agreement. No Contractor or subcontractor under this contract may be relieved of the foregoing obligation unless the limitations of 29 CFR 4.1 b(b) apply or unless the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary’s authorized representative finds, after a hearing as provided in 29 CFR 4.10 that the wages and/or fringe benefits provided for in such agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, or determines, as provided in 29 CFR 4.11, that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm’s length negotiations. Where it is found in accordance with the review procedures provided in 29 CFR 4.10 and/or 4.11 and Parts6 and 8 that some or all of the wages and/or fringe benefits contained in a predecessor Contractor’s collective bargaining agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, and/or that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm’s length negotiations, the Department will issue a new or revised wage determination setting forth the applicable wage rates and fringe benefits. Such determination shall be made part of the contract or subcontract, in accordance with the decision of the Administrator, the Administrative Law Judge, or the Administrative Review Board, as the case may be, irrespective of whether such issuance occurs prior to or after the award of a contract or subcontract (53 Comp. Gen. 401 (1973)). In the case of a wage determination issued solely as a result of a finding of substantial variance, such determination shall be effective as of the date of the final administrative decision. (g) (g) Notification to employees. The Contractor and any subcontractor under this contract shall notify each service employee commencing work on this contract of the minimum monetary wage and any fringe benefits required to be paid pursuant to this contract, or shall post the wage determination attached to this contract. The poster provided by the Department of Labor (Publication WH 1313) shall be posted in a prominent and accessible place at the work site. Failure to comply with this requirement is a violation of 41 U.S.C. 6703 and of this contract. (h) (h) Safe and sanitary working conditions. The Contractor or subcontractor shall not permit any part of the services called for by this contract to be performed in buildings or surroundings or under working conditions provided by or under the control or supervision of the Contractor or subcontractor which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to the health or safety of the service employees. The Contractor or subcontractor shall comply with the safety and health standards applied under 29 CFR Part 1925. (i) (i) Records. (j) (j) Pay periods. The Contractor shall unconditionally pay to each employee subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute all wages due free and clear and without subsequent deduction (except as otherwise provided by law or regulations, 29 CFR Part 4), rebate, or kickback on any account. These payments shall be made no later than one pay period following the end of the regular pay period in which the wages were earned or accrued. A pay period under this statute may not be of any duration longer than semi-monthly. (k) (k) Withholding of payments and termination of contract. The Contracting Officer shall withhold or cause to be withheld from the Government Prime Contractor under this or any other Government contract with the Prime Contractor such sums as an appropriate official of the Department of Labor requests or such sums as the Contracting Officer decides may be necessary to pay underpaid employees employed by the Contractor or subcontractor. In the event of failure to pay any employees subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute all or part of the wages or fringe benefits due under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, the Contracting Officer may, after authorization or by direction of the Department of Labor and written notification to the Contractor, take action to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until such violations have ceased. Additionally, any failure to comply with the requirements of this clause may be grounds for termination of the right to proceed with the contract work. In such event, the Government may enter into other contracts or arrangements for completion of the work, charging the Contractor in default with any additional cost. (l) (l) Subcontracts. The Contractor agrees to insert this clause in all subcontracts subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute. (m) (m) Collective bargaining agreements applicable to service employees. If wages to be paid or fringe benefits to be furnished any service employees employed by the Government Prime Contractor or any subcontractor under the contract are provided for in a collective bargaining agreement which is or will be effective during any period in which the contract is being performed, the Government Prime Contractor shall report such fact to the Contracting Officer, together with full information as to the application and accrual of such wages and fringe benefits, including any prospective increases, to service employees engaged in work on the contract, and a copy of the collective bargaining agreement. Such report shall be made upon commencing performance of the contract, in the case of collective bargaining agreements effective at such time, and in the case of such agreements or provisions or amendments thereof effective at a later time during the period of contract performance such agreements shall be reported promptly after negotiation thereof. (n) (n) Seniority list. Not less than 10 days prior to completion of any contract being performed at a Federal facility where service employees may be retained in the performance of the succeeding contract and subject to a wage determination which contains vacation or other benefit provisions based upon length of service with a Contractor (predecessor) or successor (29 CFR 4.173), the incumbent Prime Contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer a certified list of the names of all service employees on the Contractor’s or subcontractor’s payroll during the last month of contract performance. Such list shall also contain anniversary dates of employment on the contract either with the current or predecessor Contractors of each such service employee. The Contracting Officer shall turn over such list to the successor Contractor at the commencement of the succeeding contract. (o) (o) Rulings and interpretations. Rulings and interpretations of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute are contained in Regulations, 29 CFR Part 4. (p) (p) Contractor’s certification. (q) (q) Variations, tolerances, and exemptions involving employment. Notwithstanding any of the provisions in paragraphs (b) through (o) of this clause, the following employees may be employed in accordance with the following variations, tolerances, and exemptions, which the Secretary of Labor, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 6707 prior to its amendment by Pub.L.92-473, found to be necessary and proper in the public interest or to avoid serious impairment of the conduct of Government business: (r) (r) Apprentices. Apprentices will be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work they perform when they are employed and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship program registered with a State Apprenticeship Agency which is recognized by the U.S. Department of Labor, or if no such recognized agency exists in a State, under a program registered with the Office of Apprenticeship Training, Employer, and Labor Services (OATELS), U.S. Department of Labor. Any employee who is not registered as an apprentice in an approved program shall be paid the wage rate and fringe benefits contained in the applicable wage determination for the journeyman classification of work actually performed. The wage rates paid apprentices shall not be less than the wage rate for their level of progress set forth in the registered program, expressed as the appropriate percentage of the journeyman’s rate contained in the applicable wage determination. The allowable ratio of apprentices to journeymen employed on the contract work in any craft classification shall not be greater than the ratio permitted to the Contractor as to his entire work force under the registered program. (s) (s) Tips. An employee engaged in an occupation in which the employee customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in tips may have the amount of these tips credited by the employer against the minimum wage required by 41 U.S.C. 6703(1), in accordance with section 3(m) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and Regulations, 29 CFR Part 531. However, the amount of credit shall not exceed $1.34 per hour beginning January 1,1981. To use this provision- (t) (t) Disputes concerning labor standards. The U.S. Department of Labor has set forth in 29 CFR parts 4, 6, and 8 procedures for resolving disputes concerning labor standards requirements. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with those procedures and not the Disputes clause of this contract. Disputes within the meaning of this clause include disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency, the U.S. Department of Labor, or the employees or their representatives.
22.406-6 Payrolls and statements. (a) (a) Submission. In accordance with the clause at 52.222-8, Payrolls and Basic Records, the contractor must submit or cause to be submitted, within 7 calendar days after the regular payment date of the payroll week covered, for the contractor and each subcontractor, (1) copies of weekly payrolls applicable to the contract, and (2) weekly payroll statements of compliance. The contractor may use the Department of Labor FormWH-347, Payroll (For Contractor’s Optional Use), or a similar form that provides the same data and identical representation. (b) (b) Withholding for nonsubmission. If the contractor fails to submit copies of its or its subcontractors’ payrolls promptly, the contracting officer shall, from any payment due to the contractor, withhold approval of an amount that the contracting officer considers necessary to protect the interest of the Government and the employees of the contractor or any subcontractor. (c) (c) Examination. (d) (d) Preservation. The contracting agency shall retain payrolls and statements of compliance for 3 years after completion of the contract and make them available when requested by the Department of Labor at any time during that period. Submitted payrolls shall not be returned to a contractor or subcontractor for any reason, but copies thereof may be furnished to the contractor or subcontractor who submitted them, or to a higher tier contractor or subcontractor. (e) (e) Disclosure of payroll records. Contractor payroll records in the Government’s possession must be carefully protected from any public disclosure which is not required by law, since payroll records may contain information in which the contractor’s employees have a privacy interest, as well as information in which the contractor may have a proprietary interest that the Government may be obliged to protect. Questions concerning release of this information may involve the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
Subpart 46.7 - Warranties No subsections found.
16.205-1 Description. (a) (a) A firm fixed price for an initial period of contract deliveries or performance; and (b) (b) Prospective redetermination, at a stated time or times during performance, of the price for subsequent periods of performance.
18.107 AbilityOne specification changes. No subsections found.
52.209-5 Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. (a) (a) (b) (b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. (c) (c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror’s responsibility. Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror nonresponsible. (d) (d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. (e) (e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default.
9.507 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. No subsections found.
Part 34 - Major System Acquisition No subsections found.
52.232-22 Limitation of Funds. (a) (a) The parties estimate that performance of this contract will not cost the Government more than (1) the estimated cost specified in the Schedule or, (2)if this is a cost-sharing contract, the Government’s share of the estimated cost specified in the Schedule. The Contractor agrees to use its best efforts to perform the work specified in the Schedule and all obligations under this contract within the estimated cost, which, if this is a cost-sharing contract, includes both the Government’s and the Contractor’s share of the cost. (b) (b) The Schedule specifies the amount presently available for payment by the Government and allotted to this contract, the items covered, the Government’s share of the cost if this is a cost-sharing contract, and the period of performance it is estimated the allotted amount will cover. The parties contemplate that the Government will allot additional funds incrementally to the contract up to the full estimated cost to the Government specified in the Schedule, exclusive of any fee. The Contractor agrees to perform, or have performed, work on the contract up to the point at which the total amount paid and payable by the Government under the contract approximates but does not exceed the total amount actually allotted by the Government to the contract. (c) (c) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing whenever it has reason to believe that the costs it expects to incur under this contract in the next 60 days, when added to all costs previously incurred, will exceed 75 percent of (1) the total amount so far allotted to the contract by the Government or, (2)if this is a cost-sharing contract, the amount then allotted to the contract by the Government plus the Contractor’s corresponding share. The notice shall state the estimated amount of additional funds required to continue performance for the period specified in the Schedule. (d) (d) Sixtydays before the end of the period specified in the Schedule, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing of the estimated amount of additional funds, if any, required to continue timely performance under the contract or for any further period specified in the Schedule or otherwise agreed upon, and when the funds will be required. (e) (e) If, after notification, additional funds are not allotted by the end of the period specified in the Schedule or another agreed-upon date, upon the Contractor’s written request the Contracting Officer will terminate this contract on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Termination clause of this contract. If the Contractor estimates that the funds available will allow it to continue to discharge its obligations beyond that date, it may specify a later date in its request, and the Contracting Officer may terminate this contract on that later date. (f) (f) Except as required by other provisions of this contract, specifically citing and stated to be an exception to this clause- (g) (g) The estimated cost shall be increased to the extent that (1) the amount allotted by the Government or, (2)if this is a cost-sharing contract, the amount then allotted by the Government to the contract plus the Contractor’s corresponding share, exceeds the estimated cost specified in the Schedule. If this is a cost-sharing contract, the increase shall be allocated in accordance with the formula specified in the Schedule. (h) (h) No notice, communication, or representation in any form other than that specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this clause, or from any person other than the Contracting Officer, shall affect the amount allotted by the Government to this contract. In the absence of the specified notice, the Government is not obligated to reimburse the Contractor for any costs in excess of the total amount allotted by the Government to this contract, whether incurred during the course of the contract or as a result of termination. (i) (i) When and to the extent that the amount allotted by the Government to the contract is increased, any costs the Contractor incurs before the increase that are in excess of- (j) (j) Change orders shall not be considered an authorization to exceed the amount allotted by the Government specified in the Schedule, unless they contain a statement increasing the amount allotted. (k) (k) Nothing in this clause shall affect the right of the Government to terminate this contract. If this contract is terminated, the Government and the Contractor shall negotiate an equitable distribution of all property produced or purchased under the contract, based upon the share of costs incurred by each. (l) (l) If the Government does not allot sufficient funds to allow completion of the work, the Contractor is entitled to a percentage of the fee specified in the Schedule equalling the percentage of completion of the work contemplated by this contract.
1.501 Solicitation of agency and public views. No subsections found.
23.404 Environmental management systems. (a) (a) EMS requirements shall be included in contracts to ensure proper implementation and execution of EMS roles and responsibilities; and (b) (b)The contracting officer shall—
23.107-2 Biobased products. (a) (a) Authorities. (b) (b) USDA BioPreferred ® Program. The BioPreferred Program was created in the 2002 Farm Bill and is managed by the USDA. The goal of the BioPreferred Program is to increase the purchase and use of biobased products (as defined in 2.101) by agencies. (c) (c) Applicability. (d) (d) Agency affirmative procurement program. An agency shall establish an affirmative procurement program for biobased products in USDA-designated product categories if the agency's purchases of such products exceed the threshold set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (e) (e) Procedures. The following procedures apply when the thresholds set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are exceeded. (f) (f) Resources.
52.247-5 Familiarization with Conditions. No subsections found.
32.114 Unusual contract financing. No subsections found.
Subpart 19.5 - Small Business Total Set-Asides, Partial Set-Asides, and Reserves No subsections found.
41.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
42.709-3 Responsibilities. (a) (a) The cognizant contracting officer is responsible for— (b) (b) The contract auditor, in the review and/or the determination of final indirect cost proposals for contracts subject to this section, is responsible for—
28.312 Contract clause for insurance of leased motor vehicles. No subsections found.
32.503-13 [Reserved] No subsections found.
49.107 Audit of prime contract settlement proposals and subcontract settlements. (a) (a) The TCO shall refer each prime contractor settlement proposal valued at or above the threshold for obtaining certified cost or pricing data set forth in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1) to the appropriate audit agency for review and recommendations. The TCO may submit settlement proposals of less than the threshold for obtaining certified cost or pricing data to the audit agency. Referrals shall indicate any specific information or data that the TCO considers relevant and shall include facts and circumstances that will assist the audit agency in performing its function. The audit agency shall develop requested information and may make any further accounting reviews it considers appropriate. After its review, the audit agency shall submit written comments and recommendations to the TCO. When a formal examination of settlement proposals valued under the threshold for obtaining certified cost or pricing data is not warranted, the TCO will perform or have performed a desk review and include a written summary of the review in the termination case file. (b) (b) The TCO shall refer subcontract settlements received for approval or ratification to the appropriate audit agency for review and recommendations when— (c) (c) (d) (d) The audit report is advisory only, and is for the TCO to use in negotiating a settlement or issuing a unilateral determination. Government personnel handling audit reports must be careful not to reveal privileged information or information that will jeopardize the negotiation position of the Government, the prime contractor, or a higher tier subcontractor. Consistent with this, and when in the Government’s interest, the TCO may furnish audit reports under paragraph (c) of this section to prime and higher tier subcontractors for their use in settling subcontract settlement proposals.
14.406 Receipt of an unreadable electronic bid. (a) (a) Of the content of the bid as originally submitted; and (b) (b) That the unreadable condition of the bid was caused by Government software or hardware error, malfunction, or other Government mishandling.
8.406-5 Termination for the Government’s convenience. (a) (a) An ordering activity contracting officer may terminate individual orders for the Government’s convenience. Terminations for the Government’s convenience shall comply with FAR 12.403. (b) (b) Before terminating orders for the Government’s convenience, the ordering activity contracting officer shall endeavor to enter into a "no cost" settlement agreement with the contractor. (c) (c) Only the schedule contracting officer may modify the schedule contract to terminate any, or all, supplies or services covered by the schedule contract for the Government’s convenience.
52.210 [Reserved] No subsections found.
53.108 Recommendations concerning forms. No subsections found.
29.203 Other Federal tax exemptions. (a) (a) Pursuant to 26 U.S.C.4293, the Secretary of the Treasury has exempted the United States from the communications excise tax imposed in 26 U.S.C.4251, when the supplies and services are for the exclusive use of the United States. (Secretarial Authorization, June 20,1947, Internal Revenue Cumulative Bulletin,1947-1, 205.) (b) (b) Pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 4483(b), the Secretary of the Treasury has exempted the United States from the federal highway vehicle users tax imposed in 26 U.S.C. 4481. The exemption applies whether the vehicle is owned or leased by the United States. (Secretarial Authorization, Internal Revenue Cumulative Bulletin,1956-2, 1369.)
52.229-8 Taxes-Foreign Cost-Reimbursement Contracts. (a) (a) Any tax or duty from which the United States Government is exempt by agreement with the Government of ______ [insert name of the foreign government], or from which the Contractor or any subcontractor under this contract is exempt under the laws of ______ [insert name of country], shall not constitute an allowable cost under this contract. (b) (b) If the Contractor or subcontractor under this contract obtains a foreign tax credit that reduces its Federal income tax liability under the United States Internal Revenue Code (Title26, U.S. Code) because of the payment of any tax or duty that was reimbursed under this contract, the amount of the reduction shall be paid or credited at the time of such offset to the Government of the United States as the Contracting Officer directs.
16.207 Firm-fixed-price, level-of-effort term contracts. No subsections found.
37.502 Exclusions. (a) (a) This subpart does not apply to services that are- (b) (b) Services obtained under contracts below the simplified acquisition threshold and services incidental to supply contracts also are excluded from the requirements of this subpart. However, good management practices and contract administration techniques should be used regardless of the contracting method.
25.702 Prohibition on contracting with entities that conduct restricted business operations in Sudan. No subsections found.
47.207 Solicitation provisions, contract clauses, and special requirements. No subsections found.
3.502-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.247-11 Net Weight-Household Goods or Office Furniture. (a) (a) Net weight-full loads. The net weight of the shipment shall be determined by deducting the tare weight of the vehicle (determined by having a certified weighmaster weigh on a certified scale the empty vehicle with all blankets, pads, chains, dollies, hand trucks, and all other necessary equipment inside the vehicle) from the gross weight of the vehicle (determined by having a certified weighmaster weigh on a certified scale the fully loaded vehicle before arrival at destination). (b) (b) Net weight-part loads. The net weight of the first part load shall be determined in the same manner as specified for a full load. The net weight of the second part load shall be determined by using as the tare weight of the vehicle the gross weight of the vehicle containing the first part load and deducting this weight from the new gross weight (determined by having the loaded vehicle weighed again, in the same manner as specified for the full load). The same procedure shall apply for each succeeding part load. (c) (c) Weight certificates. The contractor shall attach the original copy of each weight certificate to the invoice for services.
22.1905 Enforcement of Executive Order Minimum Wage Requirements. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Complaints. (c) (c) Investigations. Complaints will be investigated by the Administrator, if warranted, in accordance with the procedures in 29 CFR part 23.430. (d) (d) Remedies and sanctions–
42.903 Solicitation provision and contract clause. No subsections found.
31.205-47 Costs related to legal and other proceedings. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this subsection- (b) (b) Costs incurred in connection with any proceeding brought by: a Federal, State, local, or foreign government for a violation of, or failure to comply with, law or regulation by the contractor or subcontractor (including its agents or employees) ( 41 U.S.C. 4310 and 10 U.S.C. 3750); a contractor or subcontractor employee submitting a whistleblower complaint of reprisal in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 4712 or 10 U.S.C. 4701; or a third party in the name of the United States under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.3730, are unallowable if the result is- (c) (c) (d) (d) To the extent that they are not otherwise unallowable, costs incurred in connection with any proceeding under paragraph (b) of this subsection commenced by a State, local, or foreign government may be allowable when the contracting officer (or other official specified in agency procedures) determines, that the costs were incurred either: (e) (e) Costs incurred in connection with proceedings described in paragraph (b) of this subsection, but which are not made unallowable by that paragraph, may be allowable to the extent that: (f) (f) Costs not covered elsewhere in this subsection are unallowable if incurred in connection with the following: (g) (g) Costs which may be unallowable under 31.205-47, including directly associated costs, shall be segregated and accounted for by the contractor or subcontractor separately. During the pendency of any proceeding covered by paragraph (b) and paragraphs (f)(4) and (f)(7) of this subsection, the contracting officer shall generally withhold payment of such costs. However, if in the best interests of the Government, the contracting officer may provide for conditional payment upon provision of adequate security, or other adequate assurance, and agreement by the contractor or subcontractor to repay all unallowable costs, plus interest, if the costs are subsequently determined to be unallowable.
14.211 Release of acquisition information. (a) (a) Before solicitation. Information concerning proposed acquisitions shall not be released outside the Government before solicitation except for presolicitation notices in accordance with 14.205 or 36.213-2, or long-range acquisition estimates in accordance with 5.404, or synopses in accordance with 5.201. Within the Government, such information shall be restricted to those having a legitimate interest. Releases of information shall be made (1)to all prospective bidders, and (2)as nearly as possible at the same time, so that one prospective bidder shall not be given unfair advantage over another. See 3.104 regarding requirements for proprietary and source selection information including access to and disclosure thereof. (b) (b) After solicitation. Discussions with prospective bidders regarding a solicitation shall be conducted and technical or other information shall be transmitted only by the contracting officer or superiors having contractual authority or by others specifically authorized. Such personnel shall not furnish any information to a prospective bidder that alone or together with other information may afford an advantage over others. However, general information that would not be prejudicial to other prospective bidders may be furnished upon request; e.g., explanation of a particular contract clause or a particular condition of the schedule in the invitation for bids, and more specific information or clarifications may be furnished by amending the solicitation (see 14.208).
32.703 Contract funding requirements. No subsections found.
17.501 General. (a) (a) Interagency acquisitions are commonly conducted through indefinite-delivery contracts, such as task- and delivery-order contracts. The indefinite-delivery contracts used most frequently to support interagency acquisitions are Federal Supply Schedules (FSS), Governmentwide acquisition contracts (GWACs), and multi-agency contracts (MACs). (b) (b) An agency shall not use an interagency acquisition to circumvent conditions and limitations imposed on the use of funds. (c) (c) An interagency acquisition is not exempt from the requirements of subpart 7.3, Contractor Versus Government Performance. (d) (d) An agency shall not use an interagency acquisition to make acquisitions conflicting with any other agency’s authority or responsibility (for example, that of the Administrator of General Services under title 40, United States Code, "Public Buildings, Property and Works" and 41 U.S.C. division C of subtitle I, Procurement.)
6.101 Policy. (a) (a) 10 U.S.C. 3201 and 41 U.S.C.3301 require, with certain limited exceptions (see subpart  6.2 and 6.3), that contracting officers shall promote and provide for full and open competition in soliciting offers and awarding Government contracts. (b) (b) Contracting officers shall provide for full and open competition through use of the competitive procedure(s) contained in this subpart that are best suited to the circumstances of the contract action and consistent with the need to fulfill the Government’s requirements efficiently ( 10 U.S.C. 3201 and 41 U.S.C. 3301).
22.1000 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
16.501-1 Definitions. No subsections found.
50.206 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the provision at 52.250-2, SAFETY Act Coverage Not Applicable, in solicitations if- (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) Insert the clause at 52.250-5, SAFETY Act-Equitable Adjustment-
36.204 Disclosure of the magnitude of construction projects. (a) (a) Less than $25,000. (b) (b) Between $25,000 and $100,000. (c) (c) Between $100,000 and $250,000. (d) (d) Between $250,000 and $500,000. (e) (e) Between $500,000 and $1,000,000. (f) (f) Between $1,000,000 and $5,000,000. (g) (g) Between $5,000,000 and $10,000,000. (h) (h) More than $10,000,000.
52.215-14 Integrity of Unit Prices. (a) (a) Any proposal submitted for the negotiation of prices for items of supplies shall distribute costs within contracts on a basis that ensures that unit prices are in proportion to the items’ base cost (e.g., manufacturing or acquisition costs). Any method of distributing costs to line items that distorts unit prices shall not be used. For example, distributing costs equally among line items is not acceptable except when there is little or no variation in base cost. Nothing in this paragraph requires submission of certified cost or pricing data not otherwise required by law or regulation. (b) (b) When requested by the Contracting Officer, the Offeror/Contractor shall also identify those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which it will not contribute significant value. (c) (c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, less paragraph (b) of this clause, in all subcontracts for other than: acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101 on the date of subcontract award; construction or architect-engineer services under FAR part  36; utility services under FAR part  41; services where supplies are not required; commercial products and commercial services; and petroleum products.
Foreword No subsections found.
13.006 Inapplicable provisions and clauses. (a) (a) 52.203-5, Covenant Against Contingent Fees. (b) (b) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government. (c) (c) 52.203-7, Anti-Kickback Procedures. (d) (d) 52.215-2, Audits and Records-Negotiation, except as used with its Alternate I, when using funds appropriated or otherwise made available by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5). (e) (e) 52.222-4, Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards-Overtime Compensation. (f) (f) 52.226-7, Drug-Free Workplace, except for individuals. (g) (g) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-Designated Items.
52.229-11 Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements—Notice and Representation. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) Unless exempted, there is a 2 percent tax of the amount of a specified Federal procurement payment on any foreign person receiving such payment. See 26 U.S.C. 5000C and its implementing regulations at 26 CFR 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-7. (c) (c) Exemptions from withholding under this provision are described at 26 CFR 1.5000C-1(d)(5) through (7). The Offeror would claim an exemption from the withholding by using the Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service Form W-14, Certificate of Foreign Contracting Party Receiving Federal Procurement Payments, available via the internet at www.irs.gov/w14. Any exemption claimed and self-certified on the IRS Form W-14 is subject to audit by the IRS. Any disputes regarding the imposition and collection of the 26 U.S.C. 5000C tax are adjudicated by the IRS as the 26 U.S.C. 5000C tax is a tax matter, not a contract issue. The IRS Form W-14 is provided to the acquiring agency rather than to the IRS. (d) (d) For purposes of withholding under 26 U.S.C. 5000C, the Offeror represents that (e) (e) If the Offeror represents it is a foreign person in paragraph (d)(1) of this provision, then— (f) (f) If the Offeror selects "is" in paragraph (d)(1) and "partial or no exemption" in paragraph (d)(2) of this provision, the Offeror will be subject to withholding in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.229-12, Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements, in any resulting contract. (g) (g) A taxpayer may, for a fee, seek advice from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as to the proper tax treatment of a transaction. This is called a private letter ruling. Also, the IRS may publish a revenue ruling, which is an official interpretation by the IRS of the Internal Revenue Code, related statutes, tax treaties, and regulations. A revenue ruling is the conclusion of the IRS on how the law is applied to a specific set of facts. For questions relating to the interpretation of the IRS regulations go to https://www.irs.gov/help/tax-law-questions.
46.501 General. No subsections found.
Subpart 9.2 - Qualifications Requirements No subsections found.
52.222-4 Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards -Overtime Compensation. (a) (a) Overtime requirements. No Contractor or subcontractor employing laborers or mechanics (see Federal Acquisition Regulation 22.300) shall require or permit them to work over 40 hours in any workweek unless they are paid at least 1 and 1/2 times the basic rate of pay for each hour worked over 40 hours. (b) (b) Violation; liability for unpaid wages; liquidated damages. The responsible Contractor and subcontractor are liable for unpaid wages if they violate the terms in paragraph (a) of this clause. In addition, the Contractor and subcontractor are liable for liquidated damages payable to the Government. The Contracting Officer will assess liquidated damages at the rate specified at 29 CFR 5.5(b)(2) per affected employee for each calendar day on which the employer required or permitted the employee to work in excess of the standard workweek of 40 hours without paying overtime wages required by the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards statute (found at 40 U.S.C. chapter 37). In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 2461 Note), the Department of Labor adjusts this civil monetary penalty for inflation no later than January 15 each year. (c) (c) Withholding for unpaid wages and liquidated damages. The Contracting Officer will withhold from payments due under the contract sufficient funds required to satisfy any Contractor or subcontractor liabilities for unpaid wages and liquidated damages. If amounts withheld under the contract are insufficient to satisfy Contractor or subcontractor liabilities, the Contracting Officer will withhold payments from other Federal or federally assisted contracts held by the same Contractor that are subject to the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards statute (d) (d) Payrolls and basic records. (e) (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the provisions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this clause in subcontracts that may require or involve the employment of laborers and mechanics and require subcontractors to include these provisions in any such lower tier subcontracts. The Contractor shall be responsible for compliance by any subcontractor or lower-tier subcontractor with the provisions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this clause.
46.708 Warranties of data. No subsections found.
42.1106 Reporting requirements. (a) (a) When information on contract performance status is needed, contracting officers may require contractors to submit production progress reports (see 42.1107(a)). Reporting requirements shall be limited to that information essential to Government needs and shall take maximum advantage of data output generated by contractor management systems. (b) (b) Contract administration offices shall review and verify the accuracy of contractor reports and advise the contracting officer of any required action. The accuracy of contractor-prepared reports shall be verified either by a program of continuous surveillance of the contractor’s report-preparation system or by individual review of each report. (c) (c) The contract administration office may at any time initiate a report to advise the contracting officer (and the inventory manager, if one is designated in the contract) of any potential or actual delay in performance. This advice shall-
26.605 Contract clause. No subsections found.
30.201-1 CAS applicability. (a) (a) See 48 CFR 9903.201-1. (b) (b) In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B), the threshold for determining the tentative applicability of CAS at the contract level is the amount set forth in 10 U.S.C. 3702(a)(1)(A), as adjusted for inflation in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1908.
15.403-4 Requiring certified cost or pricing data (10 U.S.C. chapter 271 and 41 U.S.C. chapter 35). (a) (a) (b) (b) When certified cost or pricing data are required, the contracting officer shall require the contractor or prospective contractor to submit to the contracting officer (and to have any subcontractor or prospective subcontractor submit to the prime contractor or appropriate subcontractor tier) the following in support of any proposal: (c) (c) If certified cost or pricing data are requested and submitted by an offeror, but an exception is later found to apply, the data must not be considered certified cost or pricing data as defined in 2.101 and must not be certified in accordance with 15.406-2 (d) (d) The requirements of this subsection also apply to contracts entered into by an agency on behalf of a foreign government.
19.601 General. (a) (a) A Certificate of Competency (COC) is the certificate issued by the Small Business Administration (SBA) stating that the holder is responsible (with respect to all elements of responsibility, including, but not limited to, capability, competency, capacity, credit, integrity, perseverance, tenacity, and limitations on subcontracting) for the purpose of receiving and performing a specific Government contract. (b) (b) The COC program empowers the SBA to certify to Government contracting officers as to all elements of responsibility of any small business concern to receive and perform a specific Government contract. The COC program does not extend to questions concerning regulatory requirements imposed and enforced by other Federal agencies. (c) (c) The COC program is applicable to all Government acquisitions except for 8(a) sole-source awards. A contracting officer shall, upon determining an apparent successful small business offeror to be nonresponsible, refer that small business to the SBA for a possible COC, even if the next acceptable offer is from a small business. (d) (d) When a solicitation requires a small business to adhere to the limitations on subcontracting, a contracting officer’s finding that a small business cannot comply with the limitation shall be treated as an element of responsibility and shall be subject to the COC process. When a solicitation requires a small business to adhere to the definition of a nonmanufacturer, a contracting officer’s determination that the small business does not comply shall be processed in accordance with subpart  19.3. (e) (e) Contracting officers, including those located overseas, are required to comply with this subpart for U.S. small business concerns. (f) (f) For the purpose of receiving a COC on an unrestricted acquisition, a small business nonmanufacturer may furnish any end item produced or manufactured in the United States or its outlying areas.
5.404-1 Release procedures. (a) (a) Application. The agency head, or a designee, may release long-range acquisition estimates if the information will- (b) (b) Conditions. The agency head shall ensure that-
Subpart 32.4 - Advance Payments for Other Than Commercial Acquisitions No subsections found.
30.102 Cost Accounting Standards Board Publication. No subsections found.
52.211-2 Availability of Defense Specifications, Standards, and Data Item Descriptions in the Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System (ASSIST) website. (a) (a) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the ASSIST website at https://assist.dla.mil. (b) (b) Defense documents not available from ASSIST may be requested from the Defense Standardization Program Office by—
22.302 Liquidated damages and overtime pay. (a) (a) When an overtime computation discloses underpayments, the responsible contractor or subcontractor must pay the affected employee any unpaid wages and pay liquidated damages to the Government. The contracting officer must assess liquidated damages at the rate specified at 29 CFR 5.5(b)(2) per affected employee for each calendar day on which the employer required or permitted the employee to work in excess of the standard workweek of 40 hours without paying overtime wages required by the statute. In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 2461 Note), the Department of Labor adjusts this civil monetary penalty for inflation no later than January 15 each year. (b) (b) If the contractor or subcontractor fails or refuses to comply with overtime pay requirements of the statute and the funds withheld by Federal agencies for labor standards violations do not cover the unpaid wages due laborers and mechanics and the liquidated damages due the Government, make payments in the following order— (c) (c) If the head of an agency finds that the administratively determined liquidated damages due under paragraph (a) of this section are incorrect, or that the contractor or subcontractor inadvertently violated the statute despite the exercise of due care, the agency head may- (d) (d) After the contracting officer determines the liquidated damages and the contractor makes appropriate payments, disburse any remaining assessments in accordance with agency procedures.
15.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
49.109-7 Settlement by determination. (a) (a) General. If the contractor and TCO cannot agree on a termination settlement, or if a settlement proposal is not submitted within the period required by the termination clause, the TCO shall issue a determination of the amount due consistent with the termination clause, including any cost principles incorporated by reference. The TCO shall comply with 49.109-1 through 49.109-6 in making a settlement by determination and with 49.203 in making an adjustment for loss, if any. Copies of determinations shall receive the same distribution as other contract modifications. (b) (b) Notice to contractor. Before issuing a determination of the amount due the contractor, the TCO shall give the contractor at least 15 days notice by certified mail (return receipt requested) to submit written evidence, so as to reach the TCO on or before a stated date, substantiating the amount previously proposed. (c) (c) Justification of settlement proposal. (d) (d) Determinations. After reviewing the information available, the TCO shall determine the amount due and shall transmit a copy of the determination to the contractor by certified mail (return receipt requested), or by any other method that provides evidence of receipt. The transmittal letter shall advise the contractor that the determination is a final decision from which the contractor may appeal under the Disputes clause, except as shown in paragraph (f) of this section. The determination shall specify the amount due the contractor and will be supported by detailed schedules conforming generally to the forms for settlement proposals prescribed in 49.602-1 and by additional information, schedules, and analyses as appropriate. The TCO shall explain each major item of disallowance. The TCO need not reconsider any other action relating to the terminated portion of the contract that was ratified or approved by the TCO or another contracting officer. (e) (e) Preservation of evidence. The TCO shall retain all written evidence and other data relied upon in making a determination, except that copies of original books of account need not be made. The TCO shall return books of account, together with other original papers and documents, to the contractor within a reasonable time. (f) (f) Appeals. The contractor may appeal, under the Disputes clause, any settlement by determination, except when the contractor has failed to submit the settlement proposal within the time provided in the contract and failed to request an extension of time. The pendency of an appeal shall not affect the authority of the TCO to settle the settlement proposal or any part by negotiation with the contractor at any time before the appeal is decided. (g) (g) Decision on the contractor’s appeal. The TCO shall give effect to a decision of the Claims Court or a board of contract appeals, when necessary, by an appropriate modification to the contract. When appropriate, the TCO should obtain a release from the contractor. TCO’s are authorized to modify the formats of settlement agreements in 49.603 to agree with this provision.
4.700 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
49.402-3 Procedure for default. (a) (a) When a default termination is being considered, the Government shall decide which type of termination action to take (i.e., default, convenience, or no-cost cancellation) only after review by contracting and technical personnel, and by counsel, to ensure the propriety of the proposed action. (b) (b) The administrative contracting officer shall not issue a show cause notice or cure notice without the prior approval of the contracting office, which should be obtained by the most expeditious means. (c) (c) Subdivision (a)(1)(i) of the Default clause covers situations when the contractor has defaulted by failure to make delivery of the supplies or to perform the services within the specified time. In these situations, no notice of failure or of the possibility of termination for default is required to be sent to the contractor before the actual notice of termination (but see paragraph (e) of this section). However, if the Government has taken any action that might be construed as a waiver of the contract delivery or performance date, the contracting officer shall send a notice to the contractor setting a new date for the contractor to make delivery or complete performance. The notice shall reserve the Government’s rights under the Default clause. (d) (d) Subdivisions (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(1)(iii) of the Default clause cover situations when the contractor fails to perform some of the other provisions of the contract (such as not furnishing a required performance bond) or so fails to make progress as to endanger performance of the contract. If the termination is predicated upon this type of failure, the contracting officer shall give the contractor written notice specifying the failure and providing a period of 10 days (or longer period as necessary) in which to cure the failure. When appropriate, this notice may be made a part of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Upon expiration of the 10 days (or longer period), the contracting officer may issue a notice of termination for default unless it is determined that the failure to perform has been cured. A format for a cure notice is in 49.607. (e) (e) (f) (f) The contracting officer shall consider the following factors in determining whether to terminate a contract for default: (g) (g) If, after compliance	with the procedures in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this 49.402-3, the contracting officer	determines that a termination for default is proper, the contracting officer	shall issue a notice of termination stating- (h) (h) The contracting officer shall make the same distribution of the termination notice as was made of the contract. A copy shall also be furnished to the contractor’s surety, if any, when the notice is furnished to the contractor. The surety should be requested to advise if it desires to arrange for completion of the work. In addition, the contracting officer shall notify the disbursing officer to withhold further payments under the terminated contract, pending further advice, which should be furnished at the earliest practicable time. (i) (i) In the case of a construction contract, promptly after issuance of the termination notice, the contracting officer shall determine the manner in which the work is to be completed and whether the materials, appliances, and plant that are on the site will be needed. (j) (j) If the contracting officer determines before issuing the termination notice that the failure to perform is excusable, the contract shall not be terminated for default. If termination is in the Government’s interest, the contracting officer may terminate the contract for the convenience of the Government. (k) (k) If the contracting officer has not been able to determine, before issuance of the notice of termination whether the contractor’s failure to perform is excusable, the contracting officer shall make a written decision on that point as soon as practicable after issuance of the notice of termination. The decision shall be delivered promptly to the contractor with a notification that the contractor has the right to appeal as specified in the Disputes clause.
4.1300 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201, "Personal Identity Verification of Federal Employees and Contractors"; and (b) (b) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidance M-05-24, dated August 5, 2005, "Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12-Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors."
Subpart 23.6 - Reserved No subsections found.
17.803 Applicability. (a) (a) Design-build construction contracts (see 36.104); (b) (b) Procurements for architect-engineer services subject to 40 U.S.C. chapter 11 (see 36.601); (c) (c) Procurements using sealed bidding procedures (see part 14); or (d) (d) Acquisition of personal protective equipment, in accordance with—
37.105 Competition in service contracting. (a) (a) Unless otherwise provided by statute, contracts for services shall be awarded through sealed bidding whenever the conditions in 6.401(a) are met, (except see 6.401(b)). (b) (b) The provisions of statute and part  6 of this regulation requiring competition apply fully to service contracts. The method of contracting used to provide for competition may vary with the type of service being acquired and may not necessarily be limited to price competition.
51.107 Contract clause. No subsections found.
3.103-1 Solicitation provision. (a) (a) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in part  13; (b) (b) [Reserved] (c) (c) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or (d) (d) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation.
7.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
List of Sections Affected No subsections found.
46.803 Policy. (a) (a) General. The Government will generally act as a self-insurer by relieving contractors, as specified in this subpart, of liability for loss of or damage to property of the Government that (1) occurs after acceptance of supplies delivered or services performed under a contract and (2) results from defects or deficiencies in the supplies or services. However, the Government will not relieve the contractor of liability for loss of or damage to the contract end item itself, except for high-value items. (b) (b) High-value items. In contracts requiring delivery of high-value items, the Government will relieve contractors of contractual liability for loss of or damage to those items. However, this relief shall not limit the Government’s rights arising under the contract to- (c) (c) Exception. The Government will not provide contractual relief under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section when contractor liability can be preserved without increasing the contract price. (d) (d) Limitations. Subject to the specific terms of the limitation of liability clause included in the contract, the relief provided under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section does not apply-
22.1019 Additional classes of service employees. (a) (a) If the contracting officer is aware that contract performance involves classes of service employees not included in the wage determination, the contracting officer shall require the contractor to classify the unlisted classes so as to provide a reasonable relationship (i.e., appropriate level of skill comparison) between the unlisted classifications and the classifications listed in the determination (see paragraph (c) of the clause at 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards). The contractor shall initiate the conforming procedure before unlisted classes of employees perform contract work. The contractor shall submit Standard Form (SF) 1444, Request For Authorization of Additional Classification and Rate. The contracting officer shall review the proposed classification and rate and promptly submit the completed SF 1444 (which must include information regarding the agreement or disagreement of the employees’ representative or the employees themselves together with the agency recommendation) and all other pertinent information to the Wage and Hour Division. Within 30 days of receipt of the request, the Wage and Hour Division will (1) approve, modify, or disapprove the request when the parties are in agreement or (2) render a final determination in the event of disagreement among the parties. If the Wage and Hour Division will require more than 30 days to take action, it will notify the contracting officer within 30 days of receipt of the request that additional time is necessary. (b) (b) Some wage determinations will list a series of classes within a job classification family, for example, Computer Operators, level I, II, and III, or Electronic Technicians, level I, II, and III, or Clerk Typist, level I and II. Generally, level I is the lowest level. It is the entry level, and establishment of a lower level through conformance is not permissible. Further, trainee classifications may not be conformed. Helpers in skilled maintenance trades (for example, electricians, machinists, and automobile mechanics) whose duties constitute, in fact, separate and distinct jobs may also be used if listed on the wage determination, but may not be conformed. Conformance may not be used to artificially split or subdivide classifications listed in the wage determination. However, conforming procedures may be used if the work which an employee performs under the contract is not within the scope of any classification listed on the wage determination, regardless of job title. (See 29 CFR 4.152.) (c) (c) Subminimum rates for apprentices, student learners, and disabled workers are permissible in accordance with paragraph (q) of the clause at 52.222-41, Service Contract Labor Standards.
16.600 Scope. No subsections found.
52.204-23 Prohibition on Contracting for Hardware, Software, and Services Developed or Provided by Kaspersky Lab Covered Entities. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Prohibition. Section 1634 of Division A of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Pub. L. 115-91) prohibits Government use of any Kaspersky Lab covered article. The Contractor is prohibited from— (c) (c) Reporting requirement. (d) (d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
32.304-6 Other collateral security. (a) (a) Mortgages on fixed assets. (b) (b) Liens against inventories. (c) (c) Endorsements. (d) (d) Guarantees. (e) (e) Subordinations or standbys of other indebtedness.
14.208 Amendment of invitation for bids. (a) (a) If it becomes necessary to make changes in quantity, specifications, delivery schedules, opening dates, etc., or to correct a defective or ambiguous invitation, such changes shall be accomplished by amendment of the invitation for bids using Standard Form 30, Amendment of Solicitation/ Modification of Contract. The fact that a change was mentioned at a pre-bid conference does not relieve the necessity for issuing an amendment. Amendments shall be sent, before the time for bid opening, to everyone to whom invitations have been furnished and shall be displayed in the bid room. (b) (b) Before amending an invitation for bids, the contracting officer shall consider the period of time remaining until bid opening and the need to extend this period. (c) (c) Any information given to a prospective bidder concerning an invitation for bids shall be furnished promptly to all other prospective bidders as an amendment to the invitation (1) if such information is necessary for bidders to submit bids or (2) if the lack of such information would be prejudicial to uninformed bidders. The information shall be furnished even though a pre-bid conference is held. No award shall be made on the invitation unless such amendment has been issued in sufficient time to permit all prospective bidders to consider such information in submitting or modifying their bids.
19.1304 Exclusions. (a) (a) Requirements that can be satisfied through award to- (b) (b) Orders under indefinite-delivery contracts (see subpart 16.5). (But see 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) for discretionary set-asides of orders); (c) (c) Orders against Federal Supply Schedules (see subpart 8.4). (But see 8.405-5 for discretionary set-asides of orders); (d) (d) Requirements currently being performed by an 8(a) participant or requirements SBA has accepted for performance under the authority of the 8(a) program, unless SBA has consented to release the requirements from the 8(a) program; or
47.103-2 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.243-2 Changes-Cost-Reimbursement. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following: (b) (b) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the estimated cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by the order, or otherwise affects any other terms and conditions of this contract, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the- (c) (c) The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract. (d) (d) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed. (e) (e) Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this clause, the estimated cost of this contract and, if this contract is incrementally funded, the funds allotted for the performance of this contract, shall not be increased or considered to be increased except by specific written modification of the contract indicating the new contract estimated cost and, if this contract is incrementally funded, the new amount allotted to the contract. Until this modification is made, the Contractor shall not be obligated to continue performance or incur costs beyond the point established in the Limitation of Cost or Limitation of Funds clause of this contract.
5.401 General. (a) (a) A high level of business security must be maintained in order to preserve the integrity of the acquisition process. When it is necessary to obtain information from potential contractors and others outside the Government for use in preparing Government estimates, contracting officers shall ensure that the information is not publicized or discussed with potential contractors. (b) (b) Contracting officers may make available maximum information to the public, except information- (c) (c) This policy applies to all Government personnel who participate directly or indirectly in any stage of the acquisition cycle.
31.203 Indirect costs. (a) (a) For contracts subject to full CAS coverage, allocation of indirect costs shall be based on the applicable provisions. For all other contracts, the applicable CAS provisions in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section apply. (b) (b) After direct costs have been determined and charged directly to the contract or other work, indirect costs are those remaining to be allocated to intermediate or two or more final cost objectives. No final cost objective shall have allocated to it as an indirect cost any cost, if other costs incurred for the same purpose, in like circumstances, have been included as a direct cost of that or any other final cost objective. (c) (c) The contractor shall accumulate indirect costs by logical cost groupings with due consideration of the reasons for incurring such costs. The contractor shall determine each grouping so as to permit use of an allocation base that is common to all cost objectives to which the grouping is to be allocated. The base selected shall allocate the grouping on the basis of the benefits accruing to intermediate and final cost objectives. When substantially the same results can be achieved through less precise methods, the number and composition of cost groupings should be governed by practical considerations and should not unduly complicate the allocation. (d) (d) Once an appropriate base for allocating indirect costs has been accepted, the contractor shall not fragment the base by removing individual elements. All items properly includable in an indirect cost base shall bear a pro rata share of indirect costs irrespective of their acceptance as Government contract costs. For example, when a cost input base is used for the allocation of G&A costs, the contractor shall include in the base all items that would properly be part of the cost input base, whether allowable or unallowable, and these items shall bear their pro rata share of G&A costs. (e) (e) The method of allocating indirect costs may require revision when there is a significant change in the nature of the business, the extent of subcontracting, fixed-asset improvement programs, inventories, the volume of sales and production, manufacturing processes, the contractor’s products, or other relevant circumstances. (f) (f) Separate cost groupings for costs allocable to offsite locations may be necessary to permit equitable distribution of costs on the basis of the benefits accruing to the several cost objectives. (g) (g) A base period for allocating indirect costs is the cost accounting period during which such costs are incurred and accumulated for allocation to work performed in that period. (h) (h) Special care should be exercised in applying the principles of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section when Government-owned contractor-operated (GOCO) plants are involved. The distribution of corporate, division or branch office G&A expenses to such plants operating with little or no dependence on corporate administrative activities may require more precise cost groupings, detailed accounts screening, and carefully developed distribution bases. (i) (i) Indirect costs that meet the definition of "excessive pass-through charge" in 52.215-23, are unallowable.
32.409-3 Security, supervision, and covenants. (a) (a) If advance payments are approved, the contracting officer shall enter into an agreement with the contractor covering special accounts and suitable covenants protecting the Government’s interest (see 32.411). This requirement generally applies under all statutory authorities, but modified requirements applicable to certain specific cases are prescribed in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section. (b) (b) The agency shall- (c) (c) In the terms of the agreement, the contracting officer should provide for a paramount lien in favor of the Government. This lien may supplement or replace other security requirements. The lien should cover- (d) (d) Security requirements vary to fit the circumstances of different cases. Minimum security requirements are covered by the clauses prescribed in the contract. The contracting officer may supplement these as necessary in each case for protection of the Government’s interest. Examples of additional security terms are- (e) (e) In an advance payment agreement with an instrumentality of the Government, a State, a local government, or an agency or instrumentality of a State or local government, the contracting officer may omit the requirement for deposit of the advances in a special account, if the official approving the advance determines that other adequate security exists to protect the Government’s interest. (f) (f) The requirements of this 32.409-3 do not apply when using letters of	credit if an agency’s procedures provide for- (g) (g) If a separate special account is not required; e.g., advance payment by a letter of credit, an agency may require a special account for an individual case, or classes of cases, if the circumstances warrant.
39.205 Exemptions. (a) (a) Allowable exemptions. An agency may grant an exemption for the following: (b) (b) Alternative means of access.An agency shall provide individuals with disabilities access to and use of information and data by an alternative means to meet the identified needs when an exemption in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section applies. (c) (c) Documentation. When an exemption applies, the contracting officer shall obtain, as part of the requirements documentation, a written determination from the requiring activity explaining the basis for the exemption in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section. This documentation shall be maintained in the contract file.
47.305-3 F.o.b. origin solicitations. (a) (a) Delivery in carload or truckload lots f.o.b. carrier’s equipment, wharf, or freight station. (b) (b) The requirement that the offeror furnish the following information with the offer: (c) (c) When delivery is "f.o.b. origin, contractor’s facility," and the designated facility is not covered by the line-haul transportation rate, the charges required to deliver the shipment to the point where the line-haul rate is applicable. (d) (d) When delivery is "f.o.b. origin, freight allowed," the basis on which transportation charges will be allowed, including the origin and destination from and to which transportation charges will be allowed. (e) (e) If f.o.b. origin offers only are desired, a statement that offers submitted on any other basis will be rejected as nonresponsive. (f) (f) (g) (g)
9.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 53.2 - Prescription of Forms No subsections found.
22.1024 Cooperation with the Department of Labor. No subsections found.
1.106 OMB approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act. No subsections found.
50.103-6 Disposition. (a) (a) The contractor’s name and address, the contract identification, and the nature of the request; (b) (b) A concise description of the supplies or services involved; (c) (c) The decision reached and the actual cost or estimated potential cost involved, if any; (d) (d) A statement of the circumstances justifying the decision; (e) (e) Identification of any of the foregoing information classified "Confidential" or higher (instead of being included in the memorandum, such information may be set forth in a separate classified document referenced in the memorandum); and (f) (f) If some adjustment is approved, a statement in substantially the following form: "I find that the action authorized herein will facilitate the national defense." The case files supporting this statement will show the derivation and rationale for the dollar amount of the award. When the dollar amount exceeds the amounts supported by audit or other independent reviews, the approving authority will further document the rationale for deviating from the recommendation.
13.302-5 Clauses. (a) (a) Each purchase order (and each purchase order modification (see 13.302-3)) shall incorporate all clauses prescribed for the particular acquisition. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.213-2, Invoices, in purchase orders that authorize advance payments (see 31 U.S.C. 3324(d)(2)) for subscriptions or other charges for newspapers, magazines, periodicals, or other publications (i.e., any publication printed, microfilmed, photocopied, or magnetically or otherwise recorded for auditory or visual usage). (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.213-3, Notice to Supplier, in unpriced purchase orders. (d) (d)
52.247-35 F.o.b. Destination, Within Consignee’s Premises. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. destination, within consignee’s premises," as used in this clause, means free of expense to the Government delivered and laid down within the doors of the consignee’s premises, including delivery to specific rooms within a building if so specified. (b) (b) The Contractor shall-
52.204-7 System for Award Management. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) (c) (c) If the Offeror does not have a unique entity identifier, it should contact the entity designated at www.sam.gov for establishment of the unique entity identifier directly to obtain one. The Offeror should be prepared to provide the following information: (d) (d) Processing time should be taken into consideration when registering. Offerors who are not registered in SAM should consider applying for registration immediately upon receipt of this solicitation. See https://ww.sam.gov for information on registration.
52.223-15 [Reserved] No subsections found.
33.215 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.233-1, Disputes, in solicitations and contracts, unless the conditions in 33.203(b) apply. If it is determined under agency procedures that continued performance is necessary pending resolution of any claim arising under or relating to the contract, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateI. (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.233-4 in all solicitations and contracts.
Subpart 27.1 - General No subsections found.
52.000 Scope of part. (a) (a) Gives instructions for using provisions and clauses in solicitations and/or contracts; (b) (b) Sets forth the solicitation provisions and contract clauses prescribed by this regulation; and (c) (c) Presents a matrix listing the FAR provisions and clauses applicable to each principal contract type and/or purpose (e.g., fixed-price supply, cost-reimbursement research and development).
Subpart 36.3 - Two-Phase Design-Build Selection Procedures No subsections found.
3.1002 Policy. (a) (a) Government contractors must conduct themselves with the highest degree of integrity and honesty. (b) (b) Contractors should have a written code of business ethics and conduct. To promote compliance with such code of business ethics and conduct, contractors should have an employee business ethics and compliance training program and an internal control system that-
52.215-5 Facsimile Proposals. (a) (a) Definition. "Facsimile proposal," as used in this provision, means a proposal, revision or modification of a proposal, or withdrawal of a proposal that is transmitted to and received by the Government via facsimile machine. (b) (b) Offerors may submit facsimile proposals as responses to this solicitation. Facsimile proposals are subject to the same rules as paper proposals. (c) (c) The telephone number of receiving facsimile equipment is:_____________ [insert telephone number]. (d) (d) If any portion of a facsimile proposal received by the Contracting Officer is unreadable to the degree that conformance to the essential requirements of the solicitation cannot be ascertained from the document- (e) (e) The Government reserves the right to make award solely on the facsimile proposal. However, if requested to do so by the Contracting Officer, the apparently successful offeror promptly shall submit the complete original signed proposal.
15.407-3 Forward pricing rate agreements. (a) (a) When certified cost or pricing data are required, offerors are required to describe any forward pricing rate agreements (FPRAs) in each specific pricing proposal to which the rates apply and to identify the latest cost or pricing data already submitted in accordance with the FPRA. All data submitted in connection with the FPRA, updated as necessary, form a part of the total data that the offeror certifies to be accurate, complete, and current at the time of agreement on price for an initial contract or for a contract modification. (See the Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data at 15.406-2.) (b) (b) Contracting officers will use FPRA rates as bases for pricing all contracts, modifications, and other contractual actions to be performed during the period covered by the agreement. Conditions that may affect the agreement’s validity shall be reported promptly to the ACO. If the ACO determines that a changed condition invalidates the agreement, the ACO shall notify all interested parties of the extent of its effect and status of efforts to establish a revised FPRA. (c) (c) Contracting officers shall not require certification at the time of agreement for data supplied in support of FPRA’s or other advance agreements. When a forward pricing rate agreement or other advance agreement is used to price a contract action that requires a certificate, the certificate supporting that contract action shall cover the data supplied to support the FPRA or other advance agreement, and all other data supporting the action.
52.237-1 Site Visit. No subsections found.
8.606 Evaluating FPI performance. No subsections found.
52.226-3 Disaster or Emergency Area Representation. (a) (a) Set-aside area. The area covered in this contract is: ________________________________________________ [Contracting Officer to fill in with definite geographic boundaries.] (b) (b) Representations. The offeror represents that it □ does □ does not reside or primarily do business in the designated set-aside area. (c) (c) An offeror is considered to be residing or primarily doing business in the set-aside area if, during the last twelve months- (d) (d) If the offeror does not meet the criteria in paragraph (c) of this provision, factors to be considered in determining whether an offeror resides or primarily does business in the set-aside area include- (e) (e) If the offeror represents it resides or primarily does business in the set-aside area, the offeror shall furnish documentation to support its representation if requested by the Contracting Officer. The solicitation may require the offeror to submit with its offer documentation to support the representation.
52.222-58 [Reserved]. No subsections found.
42.1501 General. (a) (a) Past performance information (including the ratings and supporting narratives) is relevant information, for future source selection purposes, regarding a contractor’s actions under previously awarded contracts or orders. It includes, for example, the contractor’s record of- (b) (b) Agencies shall monitor their compliance with the past performance evaluation requirements (see 42.1502), and use the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) metric tools to measure the quality and timely reporting of past performance information. CPARS is the official source for past performance information.
52.234 [Reserved] No subsections found.
26.202 Local area preference. (a) (a) When awarding emergency response contracts during the term of a major disaster or emergency declaration by the President of the United States under the authority of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121, et seq.), preference shall be given, to the extent feasible and practicable, to local firms. Preference may be given through a local area set-aside or an evaluation preference. (b) (b) When using the authority under the Stafford Act, see the definitions of "micro-purchase threshold" and "simplified acquisition threshold" in 2.101 for the authority to use an increased micro-purchase threshold and simplified acquisition threshold.
34.002 Policy. (a) (a) Promote innovation and full and open competition as required by part  6 in the development of major system concepts by- (b) (b) Sustain effective competition between alternative system concepts and sources for as long as it is beneficial.
13.401 General. (a) (a) The fast payment procedure allows payment under limited conditions to a contractor prior to the Government’s verification that supplies have been received and accepted. The procedure provides for payment for supplies based on the contractor’s submission of an invoice that constitutes a certification that the contractor- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall be primarily responsible for determining the amount of debts resulting from failure of contractors to properly replace, repair, or correct supplies lost, damaged, or not conforming to purchase requirements (see 32.602 and 32.603).
36.603 Collecting data on and appraising firms qualifications. (a) (a) Establishing offices. Agencies shall maintain offices or permanent evaluation boards, or arrange to use the offices or boards of other agencies, to receive and maintain data on firms wishing to be considered for Government contracts. Each office or board shall be assigned a jurisdiction by its parent agency, making it responsible for a geographical region or area, or a specialized type of construction. (b) (b) Qualifications data. To be considered for architect-engineer contracts, a firm must file with the appropriate office or board the Standard Form 330, "Architect-Engineer Qualifications," Part II, and when applicable, SF 330, Part I. (c) (c) Data files and the classification of firms. Under the direction of the parent agency, offices or permanent evaluation boards shall maintain an architect-engineer qualifications data file. These offices or boards shall review the SF 330 filed, and shall classify each firm with respect to- (d) (d) Currency of files. Any office or board maintaining qualifications data files shall review and update each file at least once a year. This process should include: (e) (e) Use of data files. Evaluation boards and other appropriate Government employees, including contracting officers, shall use data files on firms.
17.106 Procedures. No subsections found.
15.204-5 Part IV-Representations	and Instructions. (a) (a) Section	K, Representations, certifications, and other statements of offerors. Include	in this section those solicitation provisions that require representations,	certifications, or the submission of other information by offerors. (b) (b) Section	L, Instructions, conditions, and notices to offerors or respondents. Insert	in this section solicitation provisions and other information and	instructions not required elsewhere to guide offerors or respondents	in preparing proposals or responses to requests for information.	Prospective offerors or respondents may be instructed to submit	proposals or information in a specific format or severable parts	to facilitate evaluation. The instructions may specify further organization of	proposal or response parts, such as- (c) (c) Section	M, Evaluation factors for award. Identify all significant factors	and any significant subfactors that will be considered in awarding	the contract and their relative importance (see 15.304(d)). The contracting	officer shall insert one of the phrases in 15.304(e).
18.123 Assignment of claims. No subsections found.
42.401 Contract correspondence. (a) (a) The contracting officer (or other contracting agency personnel) normally shall (1) forward correspondence relating to assigned contract administration functions through the cognizant contract administration office (CAO) to the contractor, and (2) provide a copy for the CAO’s file. When urgency requires sending such correspondence directly to the contractor, a copy shall be sent concurrently to the CAO. (b) (b) The CAO shall send the contracting office a copy of pertinent correspondence conducted between the CAO and the contractor.
22.1407 Actions because of noncompliance. (a) (a) Withholding from payments otherwise due; (b) (b) Termination or suspension of the contract; or (c) (c) Debarment of the contractor.
Part 10 - Market Research No subsections found.
29.401-3 Federal, State, and local taxes. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, insert the clause at 52.229-3, Federal, State, and Local Taxes, in solicitations and contracts if- (b) (b) In a noncompetitive contract that meets all the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section, the contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.229-4, Federal, State, and Local Taxes (State and Local Adjustments), instead of the clause at 52.229-3, if the price would otherwise include an inappropriate contingency for potential postaward change(s) in State or local taxes.
52.209 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 25.8 - Other International Agreements and Coordination No subsections found.
28.102 Performance and payment bonds and alternative payment protections for construction contracts. No subsections found.
32.304 Procedures. No subsections found.
53.111 Contract clause. No subsections found.
4.903 Reporting contract information to the IRS. (a) (a) 26 U.S.C. 6050M, as implemented in 26 CFR, requires heads of Federal executive agencies to report certain information to the IRS. (b) (b) (c) (c) The information to report is- (d) (d) Transmit the information to the IRS through the Federal Procurement Data System (see subpart  4.6 and implementing instructions).
9.201 Definitions. No subsections found.
19.502-5 	Insufficient reasons for not setting aside an acquisition. (a) (a) A large percentage of previous contracts for the required item(s) has been placed with small business concerns. (b) (b) The item is on an established planning list under the Industrial Readiness Planning Program. However, a total small business set-aside shall not be made when the list contains a large business Planned Emergency Producer of the item(s) who has conveyed a desire to supply some or all of the required items. (c) (c) The item is on a Qualified Products List. However, a total small business set-aside shall not be made if the list contains the products of large businesses unless none of the large businesses desire to participate in the acquisition. (d) (d) A period of less than 30 days is available for receipt of offers. (e) (e) The acquisition is classified. (f) (f) Small business concerns are already receiving a fair proportion of the agency’s contracts for supplies and services. (g) (g) A class small business set-aside of the item or service has been made by another contracting activity. (h) (h) A "brand name or equal" product description will be used in the solicitation.
47.208-1 Advance notice. No subsections found.
31.205-2 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 41.1 - General No subsections found.
25.702-4 Waiver. (a) (a) The President may waive the requirement of subsection 25.702-2 on a case-by-case basis if the President determines and certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that it is in the national interest to do so. (b) (b) An agency seeking waiver of the requirement shall submit the request to the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP), allowing sufficient time for review and approval. Upon receipt of the waiver request, OFPP shall consult with the President’s National Security Council, Office of African Affairs, and the Department of State Sudan Office and Sanctions Office to assess foreign policy aspects of making a national interest recommendation. (c) (c) Agencies may request a waiver on an individual or class basis; however, waivers are not indefinite and can be cancelled if warranted. (d) (d) The consultation in 25.702-4(b) and the information in 25.702-4(c)(3) will be considered in	determining whether to recommend that the President waive the requirement of	subsection 25.702-2. In	accordance with section 6(c) of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act	of 2007, OFPP will semiannually submit a report to Congress, on April 15 th	and October 15 th, on the waivers granted.
49.601 Notice of termination for convenience. No subsections found.
19.802 Determining eligibility	for the 8(a) program. No subsections found.
31.102 Fixed-price contracts. No subsections found.
Subpart 7.1 - Acquisition Plans No subsections found.
46.202-1 Contracts for commercial products and commercial services. No subsections found.
23.302 Hazardous material identification and notice of material safety data. (a) (a) The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is responsible for issuing and administering regulations that require Government activities to apprise their employees of- (b) (b) To accomplish this objective, it is necessary to obtain certain information relative to the hazards which may be introduced into the workplace by the supplies being acquired. Accordingly, offerors and contractors are required to submit hazardous materials data whenever the supplies being acquired are identified as hazardous materials. The latest version of Federal Standard No. 313 (Material Safety Data Sheet, Preparation and Submission of) includes criteria for identification of hazardous materials. (c) (c) Hazardous material data (Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)) are required- (d) (d) MSDS’s must be submitted- (e) (e) The contracting officer shall provide a copy of all MSDS’s received to the safety officer or other designated individual.
47.306-2 Lowest overall transportation costs. (a) (a) For the evaluation of offers, the transportation officer shall give to the contracting officer, and the contracting officer shall use, the lowest available freight rates and related accessorial and incidental charges that- (b) (b) If rates or related charges become available after the bid opening or the due date of offers, they shall not be used in the evaluation unless they cover transportation for which no applicable rates or accessorial or incidental costs were in existence at the time of bid opening or due date of the offers.
39.104 Information technology services. (a) (a) Cannot be met without that requirement; or (b) (b) Require the use of other than a performance-based acquisition (see subpart  37.6).
22.1002-4 Application of the Fair Labor Standards Act minimum wage. No subsections found.
52.251-1 Government Supply Sources. No subsections found.
53.215-1 Solicitation and receipt of proposals. (a) (a) SF 26 (Rev.3/2013), Award/Contract. SF 26, prescribed in 53.214(a), may be used in entering into negotiated contracts in which the signature of both parties on a single document is appropriate, as specified in 15.509. Block 18 may not be used for negotiated procurements. (b) (b) SF 30 (Rev.11/2016), Amendment of Solicitation/Modification of Contract. SF 30, prescribed in 53.243, may be used for amending requests for proposals and for amending requests for information, as specified in 15.210(b). (c) (c) SF 33 (Rev.9/97), Solicitation, Offer and Award. SF 33, prescribed in 53.214(c), may be used in connection with the solicitation and award of negotiated contracts. Award of such contracts may be made by either OF 307, SF 33, or SF 26, as specified in 53.214(c) and 15.509. (d) (d) OF 17 (Rev.12/93), Offer Label. OF 17 may be furnished with each request for proposals to facilitate identification and handling of proposals, as specified in 15.210(c). (e) (e) OF 307 (Rev.8/2016), Contract Award. OF 307 may be used to award negotiated contracts as specified in 15.509. (f) (f) OF 308 (Rev.9/97), Solicitation and Offer-Negotiated Acquisition. OF 308 may be used to support solicitation of negotiated contracts as specified in 15.210(a). Award of such contracts may be made by OF 307, as specified in 15.509. (g) (g) OF 309 (Rev.9/97), Amendment of Solicitation. OF 309 may be used to amend solicitations of negotiated contracts, as specified in 15.210(b).
22.804-1 Nonconstruction. No subsections found.
16.501 [Reserved] No subsections found.
7.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
19.301-3 Rerepresentation by a contractor that represented itself as other than a small business concern. (a) (a) The conditions in 19.301-2(b) apply; and (b) (b) The contractor qualifies as a small business concern under the applicable size standard in effect at the time of its rerepresentation.
47.501 Definitions. No subsections found.
3.406 Records. No subsections found.
37.204 Guidelines for determining availability of personnel. (a) (a) The head of an agency shall determine, for each evaluation or analysis of proposals, if sufficient personnel with the requisite training and capabilities are available within the agency to perform the evaluation or analysis of proposals submitted for the acquisition. (b) (b) If, for a specific evaluation or analysis, such personnel are not available within the agency, the head of the agency shall- (c) (c) If the supporting agency agrees to make the required personnel available, the agencies shall execute an agreement for the detail of the supporting agency’s personnel to the requesting agency. (d) (d) If the requesting agency, after reasonable attempts to obtain personnel with the required training and capabilities, is unable to identify such personnel, the head of the agency may make the determination required by 37.203. (e) (e) An agency may make a determination regarding the availability of covered personnel for a class of proposals for which evaluation and analysis would require expertise so unique or specialized that it is not reasonable to expect such personnel to be available.
52.211-17 Delivery of Excess Quantities. No subsections found.
32.900 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
17.207 Exercise of options. (a) (a) When exercising an option, the contracting officer shall provide written notice to the contractor within the time period specified in the contract. (b) (b) When the contract provides for economic price adjustment and the contractor requests a revision of the price, the contracting officer shall determine the effect of the adjustment on prices under the option before the option is exercised. (c) (c) The contracting officer may exercise options only after determining that- (d) (d) The contracting officer, after considering price and other factors, shall make the determination on the basis of one of the following: (e) (e) The determination of other factors under paragraph (c)(3) of this section- (f) (f) Before exercising an option, the contracting officer shall make a written determination for the contract file that exercise is in accordance with the terms of the option, the requirements of this section, and part  6. To satisfy requirements of part  6 regarding full and open competition, the option must have been evaluated as part of the initial competition and be exercisable at an amount specified in or reasonably determinable from the terms of the basic contract, e.g.- (g) (g) The contract modification or other written document which notifies the contractor of the exercise of the option shall cite the option clause as authority.
49.603-4 Cost-reimbursement contracts-complete termination, with settlement limited to fee. No subsections found.
42.700 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Billing rates; and (b) (b) Final indirect cost rates.
28.203 Individual Sureties. No subsections found.
25.901 Policy. No subsections found.
29.402-2 Foreign cost-reimbursement contracts. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.229-8, Taxes-Foreign Cost-Reimbursement Contracts, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated and the contract is to be performed wholly or partly in a foreign country, unless it is contemplated that the contract will be with a foreign government. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.229-9, Taxes-Cost-Reimbursement Contracts with Foreign Governments, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-reimbursement contract with a foreign government is contemplated.
53.210 [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.005 Consideration for contract financing. (a) (a) Requirement. When a contract financing clause is included at the inception of a contract, there shall be no separate consideration for the contract financing clause. The value of the contract financing to the contractor is expected to be reflected in either (1)a bid or negotiated price that will be lower than such price would have been in the absence of the contract financing, or (2) contract terms and conditions, other than price, that are more beneficial to the Government than they would have been in the absence of the contract financing. Adequate new consideration is required for changes to, or the addition of, contract financing after award. (b) (b) Amount of new consideration. The contractor may provide new consideration by monetary or nonmonetary means, provided the value is adequate. The fair and reasonable consideration should approximate the amount by which the price would have been less had the contract financing terms been contained in the initial contract. In the absence of definite information on this point, the contracting officer should apply the following criteria in evaluating whether the proposed new consideration is adequate: (c) (c) Interest. Except as provided in subpart  32.4, Advance Payments for Other Than Commercial Acquisitions, the contract shall not provide for any other type of specific charges, such as interest, for contract financing.
25.1003 	Tax on certain foreign	procurements. No subsections found.
8.1103 Contract requirements. (a) (a) Scope of contract. (b) (b) Method of computing payments. (c) (c) A listing of the number and type of vehicles required, and the equipment and accessories to be provided with each vehicle. (d) (d) Responsibilities of the contractor or the Government for furnishing gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, and similar items. (e) (e) Unless it is determined that it will be more economical for the Government to perform the work, a statement that the contractor shall perform all maintenance on the vehicles. (f) (f) A statement as to the applicability of pertinent State and local laws and regulations, and the responsibility of each party for compliance with them. (g) (g) Responsibilities of the contractor or the Government for emergency repairs and services.
3.909-3 Solicitation provision and contract clause. (a) (a) (b) (b)
49.206-3 Submission of inventory disposal schedules. No subsections found.
52.236-9 Protection of Existing Vegetation, Structures, Equipment, Utilities, and Improvements. (a) (a) The Contractor shall preserve and protect all structures, equipment, and vegetation (such as trees, shrubs, and grass) on or adjacent to the work site, which are not to be removed and which do not unreasonably interfere with the work required under this contract. The Contractor shall only remove trees when specifically authorized to do so, and shall avoid damaging vegetation that will remain in place. If any limbs or branches of trees are broken during contract performance, or by the careless operation of equipment, or by workmen, the Contractor shall trim those limbs or branches with a clean cut and paint the cut with a tree-pruning compound as directed by the Contracting Officer. (b) (b) The Contractor shall protect from damage all existing improvements and utilities (1)at or near the work site, and (2)on adjacent property of a third party, the locations of which are made known to or should be known by the Contractor. The Contractor shall repair any damage to those facilities, including those that are the property of a third party, resulting from failure to comply with the requirements of this contract or failure to exercise reasonable care in performing the work. If the Contractor fails or refuses to repair the damage promptly, the Contracting Officer may have the necessary work performed and charge the cost to the Contractor.
36.502 Differing site conditions. No subsections found.
31.205-24 [Reserved] No subsections found.
11.101 Order of precedence for requirements documents. (a) (a) Agencies may select from existing requirements documents, modify or combine existing requirements documents, or create new requirements documents to meet agency needs, consistent with the following order of precedence: (b) (b) In accordance with OMB Circular A-119, "Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities," and Section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995, Pub. L. 104-113 (15 U.S.C. 272 note), agencies must use voluntary consensus standards, when they exist, in lieu of Government-unique standards, except where inconsistent with law or otherwise impractical. The private sector manages and administers voluntary consensus standards. Such standards are not mandated by law (e.g., industry standards such as ISO 9000, and IEEE 1680).
Subpart 17.6 - Management and Operating Contracts No subsections found.
15.404-2 Data to support proposal analysis. (a) (a) Field pricing assistance. (b) (b) Reporting field pricing information. (c) (c) Audit assistance for prime contracts or subcontracts. (d) (d) Deficient proposals. The ACO or the auditor, as appropriate, shall notify the contracting officer immediately if the data provided for review is so deficient as to preclude review or audit, or if the contractor or offeror has denied access to any records considered essential to conduct a satisfactory review or audit. Oral notifications shall be confirmed promptly in writing, including a description of deficient or denied data or records. The contracting officer immediately shall take appropriate action to obtain the required data. Should the offeror/contractor again refuse to provide adequate data, or provide access to necessary data, the contracting officer shall withhold the award or price adjustment and refer the contract action to a higher authority, providing details of the attempts made to resolve the matter and a statement of the practicability of obtaining the supplies or services from another source.
52.249-6 Termination (Cost-Reimbursement). (a) (a) The Government may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or, from time to time, in part, if- (b) (b) The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a Notice of Termination specifying whether termination is for default of the Contractor or for convenience of the Government, the extent of termination, and the effective date. If, after termination for default, it is determined that the Contractor was not in default or that the Contractor’s failure to perform or to make progress in performance is due to causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor as set forth in the Excusable Delays clause, the rights and obligations of the parties will be the same as if the termination was for the convenience of the Government. (c) (c) After receipt of a Notice of Termination, and except as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall immediately proceed with the following obligations, regardless of any delay in determining or adjusting any amounts due under this clause: (d) (d) The Contractor shall submit complete termination inventory schedules no later than 120 days from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 120-day period. (e) (e) After expiration of the plant clearance period as defined in Subpart 49.001 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Contractor may submit to the Contracting Officer a list, certified as to quantity and quality, of termination inventory not previously disposed of, excluding items authorized for disposition by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may request the Government to remove those items or enter into an agreement for their storage. Within 15 days, the Government will accept the items and remove them or enter into a storage agreement. The Contracting Officer may verify the list upon removal of the items, or if stored, within 45 days from submission of the list, and shall correct the list, as necessary, before final settlement. (f) (f) After termination, the Contractor shall submit a final termination settlement proposal to the Contracting Officer in the form and with the certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall submit the proposal promptly, but no later than 1 year from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 1-year period. However, if the Contracting Officer determines that the facts justify it, a termination settlement proposal may be received and acted on after 1 year or any extension. If the Contractor fails to submit the proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined. (g) (g) Subject to paragraph (f) of this clause, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer may agree on the whole or any part of the amount to be paid (including an allowance for fee) because of the termination. The contract shall be amended, and the Contractor paid the agreed amount. (h) (h) If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree in whole or in part on the amount of costs and/or fee to be paid because of the termination of work, the Contracting Officer shall determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor, and shall pay that amount, which shall include the following: (i) (i) The cost principles and procedures in part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, in effect on the date of this contract, shall govern all costs claimed, agreed to, or determined under this clause. (j) (j) The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the Disputes clause, from any determination made by the Contracting Officer under paragraph (f), (h), or (l) of this clause, except that if the Contractor failed to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time provided in paragraph (f) and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal. If the Contracting Officer has made a determination of the amount due under paragraph (f), (h) or (l) of this clause, the Government shall pay the Contractor- (k) (k) In arriving at the amount due the Contractor under this clause, there shall be deducted- (l) (l) The Contractor and Contracting Officer must agree to any equitable adjustment in fee for the continued portion of the contract when there is a partial termination. The Contracting Officer shall amend the contract to reflect the agreement. (m) (m) (n) (n) The provisions of this clause relating to fee are inapplicable if this contract does not include a fee.
48.104-1 Determining sharing period. (a) (a) Contracting officers must determine discrete sharing periods for each VECP. If more than one VECP is incorporated into a contract, the sharing period for each VECP need not be identical. (b) (b) The sharing period begins with acceptance of the first unit incorporating the VECP. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this subsection, the end of the sharing period is a specific calendar date that is the later of- (c) (c) For engineering-development contracts and contracts containing low-rate-initial-production or early production units, the end of the sharing period is based not on a calendar date, but on acceptance of a specified quantity of future contract units. This quantity is the number of units affected by the VECP that are scheduled to be delivered over a period of between 36 and 60 consecutive months (set at the discretion of the contracting officer for each VECP) that spans the highest planned production, based on planning and programming or production documentation at the time the VECP is accepted. The specified quantity begins with the first future contract unit affected by the VECP and continues over consecutive deliveries until the sharing period ends at acceptance of the last of the specified quantity of units. (d) (d) For contracts (other than those in paragraph (c) of this subsection) for items requiring a prolonged production schedule (e.g., ship construction, major system acquisition), the end of the sharing period is determined according to paragraph (b) of this subsection. Agencies may prescribe sharing of future contract savings on all future contract units to be delivered under contracts awarded within the sharing period for essentially the same item, even if the scheduled delivery date is outside the sharing period.
52.222-22 Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. No subsections found.
52.236-21 Specifications and Drawings for Construction. (a) (a) The Contractor shall keep on the work site a copy of the drawings and specifications and shall at all times give the Contracting Officer access thereto. Anything mentioned in the specifications and not shown on the drawings, or shown on the drawings and not mentioned in the specifications, shall be of like effect as if shown or mentioned in both. In case of difference between drawings and specifications, the specifications shall govern. In case of discrepancy in the figures, in the drawings, or in the specifications, the matter shall be promptly submitted to the Contracting Officer, who shall promptly make a determination in writing. Any adjustment by the Contractor without such a determination shall be at its own risk and expense. The Contracting Officer shall furnish from time to time such detailed drawings and other information as considered necessary, unless otherwise provided. (b) (b) Wherever in the specifications or upon the drawings the words "directed," "required," "ordered," "designated," "prescribed," or words of like import are used, it shall be understood that the "direction," "requirement," "order," "designation," or "prescription," of the Contracting Officer is intended and similarly the words "approved," "acceptable," "satisfactory," or words of like import shall mean "approved by," or "acceptable to," or "satisfactory to" the Contracting Officer, unless otherwise expressly stated. (c) (c) Where "as shown," "as indicated," "as detailed," or words of similar import are used, it shall be understood that the reference is made to the drawings accompanying this contract unless stated otherwise. The word "provided" as used herein shall be understood to mean "provide complete in place," that is "furnished and installed." (d) (d) Shop drawings means drawings, submitted to the Government by the Contractor, subcontractor, or any lower tier subcontractor pursuant to a construction contract, showing in detail (1) the proposed fabrication and assembly of structural elements, and (2) the installation (i.e., fit, and attachment details) of materials or equipment. It includes drawings, diagrams, layouts, schematics, descriptive literature, illustrations, schedules, performance and test data, and similar materials furnished by the contractor to explain in detail specific portions of the work required by the contract. The Government may duplicate, use, and disclose in any manner and for any purpose shop drawings delivered under this contract. (e) (e) If this contract requires shop drawings, the Contractor shall coordinate all such drawings, and review them for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with contract requirements and shall indicate its approval thereon as evidence of such coordination and review. Shop drawings submitted to the Contracting Officer without evidence of the Contractor’s approval may be returned for resubmission. The Contracting Officer will indicate an approval or disapproval of the shop drawings and if not approved as submitted shall indicate the Government’s reasons therefor. Any work done before such approval shall be at the Contractor’s risk. Approval by the Contracting Officer shall not relieve the Contractor from responsibility for any errors or omissions in such drawings, nor from responsibility for complying with the requirements of this contract, except with respect to variations described and approved in accordance with (f) of this clause. (f) (f) If shop drawings show variations from the contract requirements, the Contractor shall describe such variations in writing, separate from the drawings, at the time of submission. If the Contracting Officer approves any such variation, the Contracting Officer shall issue an appropriate contract modification, except that, if the variation is minor or does not involve a change in price or in time of performance, a modification need not be issued. (g) (g) The Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer for approval four copies (unless otherwise indicated) of all shop drawings as called for under the various headings of these specifications. Three sets (unless otherwise indicated) of all shop drawings, will be retained by the Contracting Officer and one set will be returned to the Contractor.
22.406-10 Disposition of disputes concerning construction contract labor standards enforcement. (a) (a) The areas of possible differences of opinion between contracting officers and contractors in construction contract labor standards enforcement include- (b) (b) Generally, these differences are settled administratively at the project level by the contracting agency. If necessary, these differences may be settled with assistance from the Department of Labor. (c) (c) When requesting the contractor to take corrective action in labor violation cases, the contracting officer shall inform the contractor of the following: (d) (d) The contracting officer shall promptly transmit the contracting officer’s findings and the contractor’s statement to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division. (e) (e) The Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, will respond directly to the contractor or subcontractor, with a copy to the contracting agency. The contractor or subcontractor may appeal the Administrator’s findings in accordance with the procedures outlined in Labor Department Regulations (29 CFR5.11). Hearings before administrative law judges are conducted in accordance with 29 CFR Part 6, and hearings before the Labor Department Administrative Review Board are conducted in accordance with 29 CFR Part 7. (f) (f) The Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, may institute debarment proceedings against the contractor or subcontractor if the Administrator finds reasonable cause to believe that the contractor or subcontractor has committed willful or aggravated violations of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards statute or the Copeland (Anti-Kickback) Act, or any of the applicable statutes listed in 29 CFR 5.1 other than the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute, or has committed violations of the Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute that constitute a disregard of its obligations to employees or subcontractors under 40 U.S.C. 3144.
52.225-2 Buy American Certificate. (a) (a) (b) (b)Foreign End Products: (b) (b)[List as necessary] (c) (c) Domestic end products containing a critical component: (d) (d) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of part  25 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
Subpart 4.16 - Unique Procurement Instrument Identifiers No subsections found.
26.103 Procedures. (a) (a) Contracting officers and prime contractors, acting in good faith, may rely on the representation of an Indian organization or Indian-owned economic enterprise as to its eligibility, unless an interested party challenges its status or the contracting officer has independent reason to question that status. (b) (b) In the event of a challenge to the representation of a subcontractor, the contracting officer shall refer the matter to the- (c) (c) The BIA will acknowledge receipt of the request from the contracting officer within 5 working days. Within 45 additional working days, BIA will advise the contracting officer, in writing, of its determination. (d) (d) The contracting officer will notify the prime contractor upon receipt of a challenge. (e) (e) If the BIA determination is not received within the prescribed time period, the contracting officer and the prime contractor may rely on the representation of the subcontractor. (f) (f) Subject to the terms and conditions of the contract and the availability of funds, contracting officers shall authorize an incentive payment of 5 percent of the amount paid to the subcontractor. Contracting officers shall seek funding in accordance with agency procedures.
9.109-2 Prohibition. No subsections found.
15.406 Documentation. No subsections found.
52.207-6 Solicitation of Offers from Small Business Concerns and Small Business Teaming Arrangements or Joint Ventures (Multiple-Award Contracts). (a) (a) Definition. "Small Business Teaming Arrangement," as used in this provision- (b) (b) The Government is soliciting and will consider offers from any responsible source, including responsible small business concerns and offers from Small Business Teaming Arrangements or joint ventures of small business concerns.
52.301 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses (Matrix). No subsections found.
22.404 Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute wage determinations. No subsections found.
22.103-1 Definition. No subsections found.
30.604 Processing changes to disclosed or established cost accounting practices. (a) (a) Scope. This section applies to required, unilateral, and desirable changes in cost accounting practices. (b) (b) Procedures. Upon receipt of the contractor’s notification and description of the change in cost accounting practice, the CFAO should review the proposed change concurrently for adequacy and compliance. The CFAO shall- (c) (c) Evaluating requests for desirable changes. (d) (d) General dollar magnitude proposal. The GDM proposal- (e) (e) General dollar magnitude proposal content. The GDM proposal- (f) (f) General dollar magnitude proposal evaluation. The CFAO shall promptly evaluate the GDM proposal. If the cost impact is immaterial, the CFAO shall notify the contractor in writing and conclude the cost-impact process with no contract adjustments. Otherwise, the CFAO shall- (g) (g) Detailed cost-impact proposal. If the contractor is required to submit a DCI proposal, the CFAO shall promptly evaluate the DCI proposal and follow the procedures at 30.606 to negotiate and resolve the cost impact. The DCI proposal- (h) (h) Calculating cost impacts. The cost impact calculation shall- (i) (i) Remedies. If the contractor does not submit the accounting change description or the proposals required in paragraph (d) or (g) of this section within the specified time, or any extension granted by the CFAO, the CFAO shall-
6.302-4 International agreement. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Application. This authority may be used in circumstances such as- (c) (c) Limitations. Except for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, contracts awarded using this authority shall be supported by written justifications and approvals described in 6.303 and 6.304.
52.216-4 Economic Price Adjustment-Labor and Material. (a) (a) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer if, at any time during contract performance, the rate of pay for labor (including fringe benefits) or the unit prices for material shown in the Schedule either increase or decrease. The Contractor shall furnish this notice within 60 days after the increase or decrease, or within any additional period that the Contracting Officer may approve in writing, but not later than the date of final payment under this contract. The notice shall include the Contractor’s proposal for an adjustment in the contract unit prices to be negotiated under paragraph (b) of this clause, and shall include, in the form required by the Contracting Officer, supporting data explaining the cause, effective date, and amount of the increase or decrease and the amount of the Contractor’s adjustment proposal. (b) (b) Promptly after the Contracting Officer receives the notice and data under paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor shall negotiate a price adjustment in the contract unit prices and its effective date. However, the Contracting Officer may postpone the negotiations until an accumulation of increases and decreases in the labor rates (including fringe benefits) and unit prices of material shown in the Schedule results in an adjustment allowable under paragraph (c)(3) of this clause. The Contracting Officer shall modify this contract (1)to include the price adjustment and its effective date and (2)to revise the labor rates (including fringe benefits) or unit prices of material as shown in the Schedule to reflect the increases or decreases resulting from the adjustment. The Contractor shall continue performance pending agreement on, or determination of, any adjustment and its effective date. (c) (c) Any price adjustment under this clause is subject to the following limitations: (d) (d) The Contracting Officer may examine the Contractor’s books, records, and other supporting data relevant to the cost of labor (including fringe benefits) and material during all reasonable times until the end of 3 years after the date of final payment under this contract or the time periods specified in subpart  4.7 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), whichever is earlier.
31.205-19 Insurance and indemnification. (a) (a) Insurance by purchase or by self-insuring includes- (b) (b) For purposes of applying the provisions of this subsection, the Government considers insurance provided by captive insurers (insurers owned by or under control of the contractor) as self-insurance, and charges for it shall comply with the provisions applicable to self-insurance costs in this subsection. However, if the captive insurer also sells insurance to the general public in substantial quantities and it can be demonstrated that the charge to the contractor is based on competitive market forces, the Government will consider the insurance as purchased insurance. (c) (c) Whether or not the contract is subject to CAS, self-insurance charges are allowable subject to paragraph (e) of this subsection and the following limitations: (d) (d) Purchased insurance costs are allowable, subject to paragraph (e) of this subsection and the following limitations: (e) (e) Self-insurance and purchased insurance costs are subject to the cost limitations in the following paragraphs:
6.302-3 Industrial mobilization; engineering, developmental, or research capability; or expert services. (a) (a) Authority. (b) (b) Application. (c) (c) Limitations. Contracts awarded using this authority shall be supported by the written justifications and approvals described in 6.303 and 6.304.
30.603 Changes to disclosed or established cost accounting practices. No subsections found.
52.216-3 Economic Price Adjustment-Semistandard Supplies. (a) (a) The Contractor warrants that the supplies identified as line items ____________ [offeror insert Schedule line item number] in the Schedule are, except for modifications required by the contract specifications, supplies for which it has an established price. The term "established price" means a price that (1)is an established catalog or market price for a commercial product sold in substantial quantities to the general public, and (2)is the net price after applying any standard trade discounts offered by the Contractor. The Contractor further warrants that, as of the date of this contract, any difference between the unit prices stated in the contract for these line items and the Contractor’s established prices for like quantities of the nearest commercial equivalents are due to compliance with contract specifications and with any contract requirements for preservation, packaging, and packing beyond standard commercial practice. (b) (b) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of the amount and effective date of each decrease in any applicable established price. Each corresponding contract unit price (exclusive of any part of the unit price that reflects modifications resulting from compliance with specifications or with requirements for preservation, packaging, and packing beyond standard commercial practice) shall be decreased by the same percentage that the established price is decreased. The decrease shall apply to those items delivered on and after the effective date of the decrease in the Contractor’s established price, and this contract shall be modified accordingly. (c) (c) If the Contractor’s applicable established price is increased after the contract date, the corresponding contract unit price (exclusive of any part of the unit price resulting from compliance with specifications or with requirements for preservation, packaging, and packing beyond standard commercial practice) shall be increased, upon the Contractor’s written request to the Contracting Officer, by the same percentage that the established price is increased, and the contract shall be modified accordingly, subject to the following limitations: (d) (d) During the time allowed for the cancellation provided for in paragraph (c)(5) of this clause, and thereafter if there is no cancellation, the Contractor shall continue deliveries according to the contract delivery schedule, and the Government shall pay for such deliveries at the contract unit price, increased to the extent provided by paragraph (c) of this clause.
22.403 Statutory, Executive Order, and regulatory requirements. No subsections found.
52.247-48 F.o.b. Destination-Evidence of Shipment. (a) (a) If this contract is awarded on a free on board (f.o.b.) destination basis, the Contractor- (b) (b) The Contractor is not required to submit evidence of shipment documentation with its invoice.
4.1401 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to all contracts with a value of $30,000 or more. Nothing in this subpart requires the disclosure of classified information. (b) (b) Reporting of subcontract information will be limited to the first-tier subcontractor.
15.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.207-1 Notice of Standard Competition. (a) (a) This solicitation is part of a standard competition under Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76 (Revised), Performance of Commercial Activities, dated May 29, 2003 (hereafter "the Circular"), to determine whether to accomplish the specified work under contract or by Government performance. (b) (b) The Government will evaluate private sector offers, the agency tender, and public reimbursable tenders, as provided in this solicitation and the Circular. (c) (c) A performance decision resulting from this standard competition will be publicly announced in accordance with the Circular. If the performance decision favors a private sector offeror, a contract will be awarded. If the performance decision favors an agency or a public reimbursable tender, the Contracting Officer shall establish, respectively, either a Most Efficient Organization letter of obligation or a fee-for-service agreement, as those terms are defined in the Circular. (d) (d) As provided in the Circular, directly interested parties may file contests, which are governed by the procedures in Federal Acquisition Regulation 33.103. Until resolution of any contest, or the expiration of the time for filing a contest, only legal agents for directly interested parties shall have access to the certified standard competition form, the agency tender, and public reimbursable tenders.
9.109-5 Solicitation provision. No subsections found.
4.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
26.104 Contract clause. (a) (a) In the opinion of the contracting officer, subcontracting possibilities exist for Indian organizations or Indian-owned economic enterprises; and (b) (b) Funds are available for any increased costs as described in paragraph (b)(2) of the clause at 52.226-1.
Part 50 - Extraordinary Contractual Actions and the safety act No subsections found.
Subpart 4.11 - System for Award Management No subsections found.
52.225-5 Trade Agreements. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Delivery of end products. The Contracting Officer has determined that the WTO GPA and FTAs apply to this acquisition. Unless otherwise specified, these trade agreements apply to all items in the Schedule. The Contractor shall deliver under this contract only U.S.-made or designated country end products except to the extent that, in its offer, it specified delivery of other end products in the provision entitled "Trade Agreements Certificate."
27.405-2 Existing works. No subsections found.
44.401 Applicability. No subsections found.
52.236-26 Preconstruction Conference. No subsections found.
52.249-1 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed-Price) (Short Form). No subsections found.
52.222-25 Affirmative Action Compliance. (a) (a) It □ has developed and has on file, □ has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2); or (b) (b) It □ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor.
11.106 Purchase descriptions for service contracts. (a) (a) Reserve final determination for Government officials; (b) (b) Require proper identification of contractor personnel who attend meetings, answer Government telephones, or work in situations where their actions could be construed as acts of Government officials unless, in the judgment of the agency, no harm can come from failing to identify themselves; and (c) (c) Require suitable marking of all documents or reports produced by contractors.
52.249 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 17.1 - Multi-year Contracting No subsections found.
31.205-23 Losses on other contracts. No subsections found.
36.505 Material and workmanship. No subsections found.
28.103-1 General. (a) (a) Generally, agencies shall not require performance and payment bonds for other than construction contracts. However, performance and payment bonds may be used as permitted in 28.103-2 and 28.103-3. (b) (b) The contractor shall furnish all bonds before receiving a notice to proceed with the work. (c) (c) No bond shall be required after the contract has been awarded if it was not specifically required in the contract, except as may be determined necessary for a contract modification.
8.709 Payments. No subsections found.
19.309 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) When contracting by sealed bidding, insert the provision at 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids, in solicitations when the contract is for supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas, or when the contracting officer has applied this part in accordance with 19.000(b)(1)(ii). (c) (c)
36.602-1 Selection criteria. (a) (a) Agencies shall evaluate each potential contractor in terms of its- (b) (b) When the use of design competition is approved by the agency head or a designee, agencies may evaluate firms on the basis of their conceptual design of the project. Design competition may be used when- (c) (c) Hold discussions with at least three of the most highly qualified firms regarding concepts, the relative utility of alternative methods and feasible ways to prescribe the use of recovered materials and achieve waste reduction and energy-efficiency in facility design (see part  23).
8.1104 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The	clause at 52.208-4, Vehicle Lease	Payments. (b) (b) The clause	at 52.208-5, Condition of	Leased Vehicles. (c) (c) The clause	at 52.208-6, Marking of Leased	Vehicles. (d) (d) A clause	substantially the same as the clause at 52.208-7, Tagging of Leased	Vehicles, for vehicles leased over 60 days (see subpart B of 41 CFR part 102-34). (e) (e) The provisions	and clauses prescribed elsewhere in the FAR for solicitations and	contracts for supplies when a fixed-price contract is contemplated,	but excluding-
32.002 Applicability of subparts. (a) (a) The following sections and subparts of this part are applicable to all purchases subject to part  32: (b) (b) subpart  32.2, Commercial Product and Commercial Service Purchase Financing, is applicable only to purchases of commercial products and commercial services under authority of part  12. (c) (c) The following subparts of this part are applicable to all purchases made under any authority other than part  12:
15.608 Prohibitions. (a) (a) Government personnel shall not use any data, concept, idea, or other part of an unsolicited proposal as the basis, or part of the basis, for a solicitation or in negotiations with any other firm unless the offeror is notified of and agrees to the intended use. However, this prohibition does not preclude using any data, concept, or idea in the proposal that also is available from another source without restriction. (b) (b) Government personnel shall not disclose restrictively marked information (see 3.104 and 15.609) included in an unsolicited proposal. The disclosure of such information concerning trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, apparatus, and other matters, except as authorized by law, may result in criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 1905.
53.217 [Reserved] No subsections found.
45.602-2 Reutilization priorities. (a) (a) Reuse within the owning agency; (b) (b) Transfer of educationally useful equipment to schools and nonprofit organizations (see Executive Order 12999, Educational Technology: Ensuring Opportunity For All Children In The Next Century, April 17, 1996, and 15 U.S.C. 3710(i)); (c) (c) Report to GSA for reuse within the Federal Government or donation as surplus property; (d) (d) Dispose of the following property in accordance with agency procedures without reporting to GSA: (e) (e) Dispose of nuclear materials (see 45.603-3(b)(5)) in accordance with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, applicable state licenses, applicable Federal regulations, and agency regulations.
28.204 Alternatives in lieu of corporate or individual sureties. (a) (a) Any person required to furnish a bond to the Government may furnish any of the types of security listed in 28.204-1 through 28.204-3 instead of a corporate or individual surety for the bond. When any of those types of security are deposited, a statement shall be incorporated in the bond form pledging the security in lieu of execution of the bond form by corporate or individual sureties. The contractor shall execute the bond forms as the principal. Agencies shall establish safeguards to protect against loss of the security and shall return the security or its equivalent to the contractor when the bond obligation has ceased. (b) (b) Upon written request by any contractor securing a performance or payment bond by any of the types of security listed in 28.204-1 through 28.204-3, the contracting officer may release a portion of the security only when the conditions allowing the partial release of security in 28.203-3(c) are met. The contractor shall, as a condition of the partial release, furnish an affidavit agreeing that the release of such security does not relieve the contractor of its obligations under the bond(s). (c) (c) The contractor may satisfy a requirement for bond security by furnishing a combination of the types of security listed in 28.204-1 through 28.204-3 or a combination of bonds supported by these types of security and additional surety bonds under 28.202 or 28.203. During the period for which a bond supported by security is required, the contractor may substitute one type of security listed in 28.204-1 through 28.204-3 for another, or may substitute, in whole or combination, additional surety bonds under 28.202 or 28.203.
22.1701 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to all acquisitions. (b) (b) The requirement at 22.1703(c) for a certification and compliance plan applies only to any portion of a contract or subcontract that-
49.603-3 Cost reimbursement contracts-complete termination, if settlement includes cost. No subsections found.
42.707 Cost-sharing rates and limitations on indirect cost rates. (a) (a) Cost-sharing arrangements, when authorized, may call for the contractor to participate in the costs of the contract by accepting indirect cost rates lower than the anticipated actual rates. In such cases, a negotiated indirect cost rate ceiling may be incorporated into the contract for prospective application. For cost sharing under research and development contracts, see 35.003(b). (b) (b) (c) (c) When ceiling provisions are utilized, the contract shall also provide that-
1.602-1 Authority. (a) (a) Contracting officers have authority to enter into, administer, or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings. Contracting officers may bind the Government only to the extent of the authority delegated to them. Contracting officers shall receive from the appointing authority (see 1.603-1) clear instructions in writing regarding the limits of their authority. Information on the limits of the contracting officers’ authority shall be readily available to the public and agency personnel. (b) (b) No contract shall be entered into unless the contracting officer ensures that all requirements of law, executive orders, regulations, and all other applicable procedures, including clearances and approvals, have been met.
52.222-18 Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. (a) (a) Definition. (b) (b) Listed end products. The following end product(s) being acquired under this solicitation is (are) included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, identified by their country of origin. There is a reasonable basis to believe that listed end products from the listed countries of origin may have been mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured child labor. (c) (c) Certification. The Government will not make award to an offeror unless the offeror, by checking the appropriate block, certifies to either paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.
17.200 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
32.907 Interest penalties. (a) (a) Late payment. The designated payment office will pay an interest penalty automatically, without request from the contractor, when all of the following conditions, if applicable, have been met: (b) (b) Improperly taken discount. The designated payment office will pay an interest penalty automatically, without request from the contractor, if the Government takes a discount for prompt payment improperly. The interest penalty is calculated on the amount of discount taken for the period beginning with the firstday after the end of the discount period through the date when the contractor is paid. (c) (c) Failure to pay interest. (d) (d) Disagreements. (e) (e) Computation of interest penalties. The Government will compute interest penalties in accordance with OMB prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315. (f) (f) Unavailability of funds. The temporary unavailability of funds to make a timely payment does not relieve an agency from the obligation to pay interest penalties.
52.211-10 Commencement, Prosecution, and Completion of Work. No subsections found.
37.203 Policy. (a) (a) The acquisition of advisory and assistance services is a legitimate way to improve Government services and operations. Accordingly, advisory and assistance services may be used at all organizational levels to help managers achieve maximum effectiveness or economy in their operations. (b) (b) Subject to 37.205, agencies may contract for advisory and assistance services, when essential to the agency’s mission, to- (c) (c) Advisory and assistance services shall not be- (d) (d) Limitation on payment for advisory and assistance services. Contractors may not be paid for services to conduct evaluations or analyses of any aspect of a proposal submitted for an initial contract award unless-
25.003 Definitions. No subsections found.
12.001 Definition. No subsections found.
3.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
47.506 Procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall obtain assistance from the transportation activity (see 47.105) in developing appropriate shipping instructions and delivery terms for inclusion in solicitations and contracts that may involve ocean transportation of supplies subject to the requirements of the Cargo Preference Act of1954 (see 47.502(a)(3)). (b) (b) When the contractor notifies the contracting officer that a privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessel is not available, the contracting officer shall seek assistance from the transportation activity. (c) (c) For purposes of determining the availability of privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels at fair and reasonable rates, rates filed and published in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Maritime Commission may be accepted as fair and reasonable. When applicable rates for charter cargoes are not in published tariffs, a determination as to whether the rates are fair and reasonable shall be obtained from the Maritime Administration. (d) (d) The Maritime Administration has issued regulations (46 CFR381) that require agencies to submit reports regarding ocean shipments. Contracting officers shall follow agency regulations when preparing, or furnishing information for, these reports.
7.106 Additional requirements for major systems. (a) (a) In planning for the solicitation of a major system (see part  34) development contract, planners shall consider requiring offerors to include, in their offers, proposals to incorporate in the design of a major system- (b) (b) In planning for the solicitation of a major system (see part  34) production contract, planners shall consider requiring offerors to include, in their offers, proposals identifying opportunities to assure that the Government will be able to obtain, on a competitive basis, items acquired in connection with the system that are likely to be acquired in substantial quantities during the service life of the system. Proposals submitted in response to such requirements may include the following: (c) (c) In determining whether to apply paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, planners shall consider the purposes for which the system is being acquired and the technology necessary to meet the system’s required capabilities. If such proposals are required, the contracting officer shall consider them in evaluating competing offers. In noncompetitive awards, the factors in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, may be considered by the contracting officer as objectives in negotiating the contract.
16.506 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.216-18, Ordering, in solicitations and contracts when a definite-quantity contract, a requirements contract, or an indefinite-quantity contract is contemplated. (b) (b) Insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.216-19, Order Limitations, in solicitations and contracts when a definite-quantity contract, a requirements contract, or an indefinite-quantity contract is contemplated. (c) (c) Insert the clause at 52.216-20, Definite Quantity, in solicitations and contracts when a definite-quantity contract is contemplated. (d) (d) (e) (e) Insert the clause at 52.216-22, Indefinite Quantity, in solicitations and contracts when an indefinite-quantity contract is contemplated. (f) (f) Insert the provision at 52.216-27, Single or Multiple Awards, in solicitations for indefinite-quantity contracts that may result in multiple contract awards. Modify the provision to specify the estimated number of awards. Do not use this provision for advisory and assistance services contracts that exceed 3 years and $15 million (including all options). (g) (g) Insert the provision at 52.216-28, Multiple Awards for Advisory and Assistance Services, in solicitations for task-order contracts for advisory and assistance services that exceed 3 years and $15 million (including all options), unless a determination has been made under 16.504(c)(2)(i)(A). Modify the provision to specify the estimated number of awards. (h) (h) See 10.001(d) for insertion of the clause at 52.210-1, Market Research, when the contract is over $6 million for the procurement of items other than commercial products or commercial services. (i) (i) See 7.107-6 for use of 52.207-6, Solicitation of Offers from Small Business Concerns and Small Business Teaming Arrangement or Joint Ventures (Multiple-Award Contracts) in solicitations for multiple-award contracts above the substantial bundling threshold of the agency. (j) (j) Insert the clause at 52.216-32, Task-Order and Delivery-Order Ombudsman, in solicitations and contracts when a multiple-award indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity contract is contemplated. Use the clause with its Alternate I when the contract will be available for use by multiple agencies (e.g., Governmentwide acquisition contracts or multi-agency contracts). When placing orders under the multiple-award contract available for use by multiple agencies, the ordering activity's contracting officer shall complete paragraph (d)(2) and include Alternate I in the notice of intent to place an order, and in the resulting order.
51.201 Policy. (a) (a) If it is in the Government’s interest, the contracting officer may authorize cost-reimbursement contractors to obtain, for official purposes only, interagency fleet management system (IFMS) vehicles and related services, including- (b) (b) Complete rebuilding of major components of contractor-owned or -leased equipment requires the approval of the contracting officer in each instance. (c) (c) Government contractors shall not be authorized to obtain interagency fleet management system (IFMS) vehicles and related services for use in performance of any contract other than a cost-reimbursement contract, except as otherwise specifically approved by the Administrator of the General Services Administration at the request of the agency involved.
25.504-2 WTO GPA/Caribbean Basin Trade Initiative/FTAs. No subsections found.
22.1002-3 Wage determinations based on collective bargaining agreements. (a) (a) Successor contractors performing on contracts in excess of $2,500 for substantially the same services performed in the same locality must pay wages and fringe benefits (including accrued wages and benefits and prospective increases) at least equal to those contained in any bona fide collective bargaining agreement entered into under the predecessor contract. This requirement is self-executing and is not contingent upon incorporating a wage determination or the wage and fringe benefit terms of the predecessor contractor’s collective bargaining agreement in the successor contract. This requirement will not apply if the Secretary of Labor determines- (b) (b) Paragraphs in this subpart  22.10 which deal with this statutory requirement and the Department of Labor’s implementing regulations are 22.1010, concerning notification to contractors and bargaining representatives of procurement dates; 22.1012-2, explaining when a collective bargaining agreement will not apply due to late receipt by the contracting officer; and 22.1013 and 22.1021, explaining when the application of a collective bargaining agreement can be challenged due to a variance with prevailing rates or lack of arm’s length bargaining.
39.103 Modular contracting. (a) (a) This section implements 41 U.S.C. 2308. Modular contracting is intended to reduce program risk and to incentivize contractor performance while meeting the Government’s need for timely access to rapidly changing technology. Consistent with the agency’s information technology architecture, agencies should, to the maximum extent practicable, use modular contracting to acquire major systems (see 2.101) of information technology. Agencies may also use modular contracting to acquire non-major systems of information technology. (b) (b) When using modular contracting, an acquisition of a system of information technology may be divided into several smaller acquisition increments that- (c) (c) The characteristics of an increment may vary depending upon the type of information technology being acquired and the nature of the system being developed. The following factors may be considered: (d) (d) For each increment, contracting officers shall choose an appropriate contracting technique that facilitates the acquisition of subsequent increments. Pursuant to parts  16 and 17 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, contracting officers shall select the contract type and method appropriate to the circumstances (e.g., indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts, single contract with options, successive contracts, multiple awards, task order contracts). Contract(s) shall be structured to ensure that the Government is not required to procure additional increments. (e) (e) To avoid obsolescence, a modular contract for information technology should, to the maximum extent practicable, be awarded within 180 days after the date on which the solicitation is issued. If award cannot be made within 180 days, agencies should consider cancellation of the solicitation in accordance with 14.209 or 15.206(e). To the maximum extent practicable, deliveries under the contract should be scheduled to occur within 18 months after issuance of the solicitation.
31.105 Construction and architect-engineer contracts. (a) (a) This category includes all contracts and contract modifications negotiated on the basis of cost with organizations other than educational institutions (see 31.104), State and local governments (see 31.107), and nonprofit organizations except those exempted under OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, appendix VIII (see 31.108) for construction management or construction, alteration or repair of buildings, bridges, roads, or other kinds of real property. It also includes architect-engineer contracts related to construction projects. It does not include contracts for vessels, aircraft, or other kinds of personal property. (b) (b) Except as otherwise provided in (d) of this section, the cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.2 shall be used in the pricing of contracts and contract modifications in this category if cost analysis is performed as required by 15.404-1(c). (c) (c) In addition, the contracting officer shall incorporate the cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.2 (as modified by (d) of this section by reference in contracts in this category as the basis for- (d) (d) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d), the allowability of costs for construction and architect-engineer contracts shall be determined in accordance with subpart  31.2.
49.606 Granting subcontract settlement authorization. No subsections found.
19.805 Competitive 8(a). No subsections found.
25.702-3 Remedies. (a) (a) The contracting officer may terminate the contract; (b) (b) The suspending and debarring official may suspend the contractor in accordance with the procedures in subpart  9.4; and (c) (c) The suspending and debarring may debar the contractor for a period not to exceed 3 years in accordance with the procedures in subpart  9.4.
Subpart 41.6 - Forms No subsections found.
31.205-5 [Reserved] No subsections found.
12.208 Contract quality assurance. No subsections found.
52.216-30 Time-and-Materials/Labor-Hour Proposal Requirements—Other Than Commercial Acquisition Without Adequate Price Competition. (a) (a) The Government contemplates award of a Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hour type of contract resulting from this solicitation. (b) (b) The offeror must specify separate fixed hourly rates in its offer that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit for each category of labor to be performed by- (c) (c) Unless exempt under paragraph (d) of this provision, the fixed hourly rates for services transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the offeror under a common control- (d) (d) The fixed hourly rates for services that meet the definition of “commercial service” at Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101 that are transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the offeror under a common control may be the established catalog or market rate when it is the established practice of the transferring organization to price interorganizational transfers at other than cost for commercial work of the offeror or any division, subsidiary or affiliate of the offeror under a common control.
19.502-2 Total small business	set-asides. (a) (a) Before setting aside an acquisition	under this paragraph, refer to 19.203(b). Each acquisition of supplies	or services that has an anticipated dollar value above the micro-purchase	threshold, but not over the simplified acquisition threshold, shall be	set aside for small business unless the contracting officer determines	there is not a reasonable expectation of obtaining offers from two	or more responsible small business concerns that are competitive	in terms of fair market prices, quality, and delivery. If the	contracting officer receives only one acceptable offer from a responsible	small business concern in response to a set-aside, the contracting	officer should make an award to that firm. If the contracting officer	receives no acceptable offers from responsible small business concerns,	the set-aside shall be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid,	shall be resolicited on an unrestricted basis. The small business	set-aside does not preclude the award of a contract as described	in 19.203. (b) (b) Before	setting aside an acquisition under this paragraph, refer to 19.203(c). The contracting	officer shall set aside any acquisition over the simplified acquisition	threshold for small business participation when there is a	reasonable expectation that-
4.904 Reporting payment information to the IRS. No subsections found.
9.206 Acquisitions subject to qualification requirements. No subsections found.
32.303 General. (a) (a) Section 301 of the Defense Production Act authorizes loan guarantees for contract performance or other operations related to national defense, subject to amounts annually authorized by Congress on the maximum obligation of any guaranteeing agency under any loan, discount, advance, or commitment in connection therewith, entered into under section 301. (See 50 U.S.C. App.2091 for statutory limitations and exceptions concerning the authorization of loan guarantee amounts and the use of loan guarantees for the prevention of insolvency or bankruptcy.) (b) (b) The guarantee shall be for less than 100 percent of the loan unless the agency determines that- (c) (c) Loan guarantees are not issued to other agencies of the Government. (d) (d) Guaranteed loans are essentially the same as conventional loans made by private financial institutions, except that the guaranteeing agency is obligated, on demand of the lender, to purchase a stated percentage of the loan and to share any losses in the amount of guaranteed percentage. It is the responsibility of the private financial institution to disburse and collect funds and to administer the loan. Under Regulation V of the Federal Reserve Board (12 CFR245), any private financing institution may submit an application to the Federal Reserve Bank of its district for guarantee of a loan or credit. (e) (e) Federal Reserve Banks will make the loan guarantee agreements on behalf of the guaranteeing agencies. (f) (f) Under Section 302(c) of Executive Order 10480, August 14,1953 (3 CFR1949-53), as amended, all actions and operations of Federal Reserve Banks, as fiscal agents, are subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board is authorized to prescribe the following, after consultation with the heads of guaranteeing agencies: (g) (g) The guaranteeing agency is responsible for certifying eligibility for the guarantee and fixing the maximum dollar amount and maturity date of the guaranteed loan to meet the contractor’s requirement for financing performance of the defense production contract on hand at the time the guarantee application is submitted.
15.509 Forms. No subsections found.
29.401-4 New Mexico gross receipts and compensating tax. (a) (a) Definition. (b) (b) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.229-10, State of New Mexico Gross Receipts and Compensating Tax, in solicitations and contracts issued by the agencies identified in paragraph (c) of this subsection when all three of the following conditions exist: (c) (c) Participating agencies.
28.105 Other types of bonds. No subsections found.
52.222-62 Paid Sick Leave Under Executive Order 13706. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause (in accordance with 29 CFR 13.2)- (b) (b) Executive Order 13706. (c) (c) Paid sick leave. The Contractor shall- (d) (d) Contractors may fulfill their obligations under E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13 jointly with other contractors through a multiemployer plan, or may fulfill their obligations through an individual fund, plan, or program (see 29 CFR 13.8). (e) (e) Withholding. The Contracting Officer will, upon his or her own action or upon written request of an authorized representative of the Department of Labor, withhold or cause to be withheld from the Contractor under this or any other Federal contract with the same Contractor, so much of the accrued payments or advances as may be considered necessary to pay employees the full amount owed to compensate for any violation of the requirements of E.O. 13706, 29 CFR Part 13, or this clause, including- (f) (f) Payment suspension/contract termination/contractor debarment. (g) (g) The paid sick leave required by E.O. 13706, 29 CFR Part 13, and this clause is in addition to the Contractor's obligations under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and the Contractor may not receive credit toward its prevailing wage or fringe benefit obligations under those Acts for any paid sick leave provided in satisfaction of the requirements of E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13. (h) (h) Nothing in E.O. 13706 or 29 CFR Part 13 shall excuse noncompliance with or supersede any applicable Federal or State law, any applicable law or municipal ordinance, or a collective bargaining agreement requiring greater paid sick leave or leave rights than those established under E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13. (i) (i) Recordkeeping. (j) (j) Interference/discrimination. (k) (k) Notice. The Contractor shall notify all employees performing work on or in connection with a contract covered by the E.O. of the paid sick leave requirements of E.O. 13706, 29 CFR Part 13, and this clause by posting a notice provided by the Department of Labor in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite so it may be readily seen by employees. Contractors that customarily post notices to employees electronically may post the notice electronically, provided such electronic posting is displayed prominently on any website that is maintained by the Contractor, whether external or internal, and customarily used for notices to employees about terms and conditions of employment. (l) (l) Disputes concerning labor standards. Disputes related to the application of E.O. 13706 to this contract shall not be subject to the general disputes clause of the contract. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with the procedures of the Department of Labor set forth in 29 CFR Part 13. Disputes within the meaning of this contract clause include disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency, the Department of Labor, or the employees or their representatives. (m) (m) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (m), in all subcontracts, regardless of dollar value, that are subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and are to be performed in whole or in part in the United States.
Part 17 - Special Contracting Methods No subsections found.
22.1400 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
18.124 Electronic funds transfer. No subsections found.
6.501 Requirement. (a) (a) Be in positions other than that of the agency senior procurement executive; (b) (b) Not be assigned any duties or responsibilities that are inconsistent with 6.502; and (c) (c) Be provided with staff or assistance (e.g., specialists in engineering, technical operations, contract administration, financial management, supply management, and utilization of small business concerns), as may be necessary to carry out the advocate’s duties and responsibilities.
17.101 Authority. No subsections found.
15.204-2 Part I-The Schedule. (a) (a) Section A, Solicitation/contract form. (b) (b) Section B, Supplies or services and prices/costs. Include a brief description of the supplies or services; e.g., item number, national stock number/part number if applicable, nouns, nomenclature, and quantities. (This includes incidental deliverables such as manuals and reports.) (c) (c) Section C, Description/specifications/statement of work. Include any description or specifications needed in addition to Section B (see part  11, Describing Agency Needs). (d) (d) Section D, Packaging and marking. Provide packaging, packing, preservation, and marking requirements, if any. (e) (e) Section E, Inspection and acceptance. Include inspection, acceptance, quality assurance, and reliability requirements (see part  46, Quality Assurance). (f) (f) Section F, Deliveries or performance. Specify the requirements for time, place, and method of delivery or performance (see subpart  11.4, Delivery or Performance Schedules, and 47.301-1). (g) (g) Section G, Contract administration data. Include any required accounting and appropriation data and any required contract administration information or instructions other than those on the solicitation form. Include a statement that the offeror should include the payment address in the proposal, if it is different from that shown for the offeror. (h) (h) Section H, Special contract requirements. Include a clear statement of any special contract requirements that are not included in Section I, Contract clauses, or in other sections of the uniform contract format.
36.604 Performance evaluation. No subsections found.
46.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
22.810 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) When a contract is contemplated that will include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity, the contracting officer shall insert- (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.222-23, Notice of Requirement for Affirmative Action to Ensure Equal Employment Opportunity for Construction, in solicitations for construction when a contract is contemplated that will include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity, and the amount of the contract is expected to be in excess of $10,000. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.222-24, Preaward On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Evaluation, in solicitations other than those for construction when a contract is contemplated that will include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity, and the amount of the contract is expected be $10 million or more. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance, in solicitations, other than those for construction, when a contract is contemplated that will include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity, in solicitations and contracts (see 22.802) unless the contract is exempt from all of the requirements of E.O. 11246 (see 22.807(a)). If the contract is exempt from one or more, but not all, of the requirements of E.O. 11246, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I. (f) (f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.222-27, Affirmative Action Compliance Requirements for Construction, in solicitations and contracts for construction that will include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity, when the amount of the contract is expected to be in excess of $10,000. (g) (g) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.222-29, Notification of Visa Denial, in contracts that will include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity, if the contractor is required to perform in or on behalf of a foreign country.
34.005 General requirements. No subsections found.
26.205 Disaster Response Registry. (a) (a) Contracting officers shall consult the Disaster Response Registry via https://www.sam.gov to determine the availability of contractors for debris removal, distribution of supplies, reconstruction, and other disaster or emergency relief activities inside the United States and outlying areas. (b) (b) A list of prospective vendors voluntarily participating in the Disaster Response Registry can be retrieved using the System for Award Management (SAM) search tool, which can be accessed via https://www.sam.gov, Search Records, Advanced Search, Disaster Response Registry Search. These vendors may be identified by selecting the criteria for "Disaster Response Contractors". Contractors are required to register in SAM in order to gain access to the Disaster Response Registry.
46.308 Cost-reimbursement research and development contracts. No subsections found.
52.233 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.226-4 Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside. (a) (a) Set-aside area. Offers are solicited only from businesses residing or primarily doing business in ________________________________________________ [Contracting Officer to fill in with definite geographic boundaries.] Offers received from other businesses shall not be considered. (b) (b) This set-aside is in addition to any small business set-aside contained in this contract.
19.201 General policy. (a) (a) It is the policy of the Government to provide maximum practicable opportunities in its acquisitions to small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns. Such concerns must also have the maximum practicable opportunity to participate as subcontractors in the contracts awarded by any executive agency, consistent with efficient contract performance. The Small Business Administration (SBA) counsels and assists small business concerns and assists contracting personnel to ensure that a fair proportion of contracts for supplies and services is placed with small business. (b) (b) Heads of contracting activities are responsible for effectively implementing the small business programs within their activities, including achieving program goals. They are to ensure that contracting and technical personnel maintain knowledge of small business program requirements and take all reasonable action to increase participation in their activities’ contracting processes by these businesses. (c) (c) The Small Business Act requires each agency with contracting authority to establish an Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (see section 15(k) of the Small Business Act). For the Department of Defense, in accordance with section 904 of Public Law 109-163 (10 U.S.C. 144 note), the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization has been redesignated as the Office of Small Business Programs. Management of the office is the responsibility of an officer or employee of the agency who, in carrying out the purposes of the Act— (d) (d) Small business specialists shall be appointed and act in accordance with agency regulations.
53.250 [Reserved] No subsections found.
27.406-3 Major system acquisition. (a) (a) The clause at 52.227-21, Technical Data Declaration, Revision, and Withholding of Payment-Major Systems, implements 41 U.S.C. 2302(e). When using the clause at 52.227-21, the section of the contract specifying data delivery requirements (see 27.406-1(b)) shall expressly identify those line items of technical data to which the clause applies. Upon delivery of the technical data, the contracting officer shall review the technical data and the contractor’s declaration relating to it to assure that the data are complete, accurate, and comply with contract requirements. If the data are not complete, accurate, or compliant, the contracting officer should request the contractor to correct the deficiencies, and may withhold payment. Final payment shall not be made under the contract until it has been determined that the delivery requirements of those line items of data to which the clause applies have been satisfactorily met. (b) (b) In a contract for, or in support of, a major system awarded by a civilian agency other than NASA or the U.S. Coast Guard, the following applies:
52.237-6 Incremental Payment by Contractor to Government. (a) (a) The Contractor shall perform the work called for under this contract and within _____ days of receipt of notice of award, unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, and before proceeding with the work, shall pay _____ [fill in amount]. Thereafter, the Contractor shall make payment to the Government in the amount and frequency specified in the Schedule. Checks shall be made payable to the office designated in the contract and shall be forwarded to the Contracting Officer. (b) (b) Upon the Government’s receipt of each increment of payment, the Contractor shall receive title to such property as the Contracting Officer determines to be fair and reasonable for that increment of payment. Upon receipt of the Contractor’s final payment, all title that has not passed to the Contractor shall vest in the Contractor, unless specifically designated in the Schedule as being retained by the Government. The Government shall not be responsible for the condition of, or any loss or damage to, the property. (c) (c) The Contractor shall promptly remove from the site all property acquired by the Contractor. The Government will not permit storage of property on the site beyond the completion date. If the Contractor does not wish to remove from the site any of the property acquired, the Contracting Officer may, upon written request, grant the Contractor permission to leave the property on the premises. As a condition of the granting of this permission, the Contractor agrees to waive any right, title, claim, or interest in and to the property.
8.601 General. (a) (a) Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (FPI), also referred to as UNICOR, is a self-supporting, wholly owned Government corporation of the District of Columbia. (b) (b) FPI provides training and employment for prisoners confined in Federal penal and correctional institutions through the sale of its supplies and services to Government agencies (18 U.S.C. 4121-4128). (c) (c) FPI diversifies its supplies and services to minimize adverse impact on private industry. (d) (d) Supplies manufactured and services performed by FPI are listed in the FPI Schedule, which can be accessed at http://www.unicor.gov or by submitting a written request to Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20534. (e) (e) Agencies are encouraged to purchase FPI supplies and services to the maximum extent practicable.
15.407-4 Should-cost review. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Program should-cost review. (c) (c) Overhead should-cost review.
18.119 Trade agreements. No subsections found.
52.215-2 Audit and Records-Negotiation. (a) (a) As used in this clause, "records" includes books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of whether such items are in written form, in the form of computer data, or in any other form. (b) (b) Examination of costs. If this is a cost-reimbursement, incentive, time-and-materials, labor-hour, or price redeterminable contract, or any combination of these, the Contractor shall maintain and the Contracting Officer, or an authorized representative of the Contracting Officer, shall have the right to examine and audit all records and other evidence sufficient to reflect properly all costs claimed to have been incurred or anticipated to be incurred directly or indirectly in performance of this contract. This right of examination shall include inspection at all reasonable times of the Contractor’s plants, or parts of them, engaged in performing the contract. (c) (c) Certified cost or pricing data. If the Contractor has been required to submit certified cost or pricing data in connection with any pricing action relating to this contract, the Contracting Officer, or an authorized representative of the Contracting Officer, in order to evaluate the accuracy, completeness, and currency of the certified cost or pricing data, shall have the right to examine and audit all of the Contractor’s records, including computations and projections, related to- (d) (d) Comptroller General.- (e) (e) Reports. If the Contractor is required to furnish cost, funding, or performance reports, the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative of the Contracting Officer shall have the right to examine and audit the supporting records and materials, for the purpose of evaluating- (f) (f) Availability. The Contractor shall make available at its office at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this clause, for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in subpart  4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), or for any longer period required by statute or by other clauses of this contract. In addition- (g) (g) The Contractor shall insert a clause containing all the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (g), in all subcontracts under this contract that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in FAR 2.101 on the date of subcontract award, and—
Subpart 36.4 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
33.212 Contracting officer’s duties upon appeal. No subsections found.
4.1700 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
52.247-32 F.o.b. Origin, Freight Prepaid. (a) (a) The term "f.o.b. origin, freight prepaid," as used in this clause, means- (b) (b) The Contractor shall- (c) (c) These Contractor responsibilities are specified for performance at the plant or plants at which these supplies are to be finally inspected and accepted, unless the facilities for shipment by carrier’s equipment are not available at the Contractor’s plant, in which case the responsibilities shall be performed f.o.b. the point or points in the same or nearest city where the specified carrier’s facilities are available; subject, however, to the following qualifications:
48.201 Clauses for supply or service contracts. (a) (a) General. The contracting officer shall insert a value engineering clause in solicitations and contracts when the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) and in paragraph (f) of this section. A value engineering clause may be included in contracts of lesser value if the contracting officer sees a potential for significant savings. Unless the chief of the contracting office authorizes its inclusion, the contracting officer shall not include a value engineering clause in solicitations and contracts- (b) (b) Value engineering incentive. To provide a value engineering incentive, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.248-1, Value Engineering, in solicitations and contracts except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section (but see paragraph (e)(1) of this section). (c) (c) Value engineering program requirement. (d) (d) Value engineering incentive and program requirement. (e) (e) Collateral savings computation not cost-effective. If the head of the contracting activity determines for a contract or class of contracts that the cost of computing and tracking collateral savings will exceed the benefits to be derived, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its- (f) (f) Architect-engineer contracts. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.248-2, Value Engineering Architect-Engineer, in solicitations and contracts whenever the Government requires and pays for a specific value engineering effort in architect-engineer contracts. The clause at 52.248-1, Value Engineering, shall not be used in solicitations and contracts for architect-engineer services. (g) (g) Engineering-development solicitations and contracts. For engineering-development solicitations and contracts, and solicitations and contracts containing low-rate-initial-production or early production units, the contracting officer must modify the clause at 52.248-1, Value Engineering, by- (h) (h) Extended production period solicitations and contracts. In solicitations and contracts for items requiring an extended period for production (e.g., ship construction, major system acquisition), if agency procedures prescribe sharing of future contract savings on all units to be delivered under contracts awarded during the sharing period (see 48.104-1(c)), the contracting officer must modify the clause at 52.248-1, Value Engineering, by revising paragraph (i)(3)(i) of the clause and the first sentence under paragraph (3) of the definition of "acquisition savings" by substituting "under contracts awarded during the sharing period" for "during the sharing period."
52.223-12 Maintenance, Service, Repair, or Disposal of Refrigeration Equipment and Air Conditioners. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause– (b) (b) The Contractor shall comply with the applicable requirements of Sections608 and 609 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7671g and 7671h) as each or both apply to this contract. (c) (c) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor shall reduce the use, release, or emissions of high global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons under this contract by– (d) (d)  The Contractor shall refer to EPA’s SNAP program to identify alternatives. The SNAP list of alternatives is found at 40 CFR part 82 subpart G with supplemental tables available at https://www.epa.gov/snap/.
Subpart 42.7 - Indirect Cost Rates No subsections found.
40.202-8 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.204-19 Incorporation by Reference of Representations and Certifications. No subsections found.
13.302-2 Unpriced purchase orders. (a) (a) An unpriced purchase order is an order for supplies or services, the price of which is not established at the time of issuance of the order. (b) (b) An unpriced purchase order may be used only when- (c) (c) Unpriced purchase orders may be issued on paper or electronically. A realistic monetary limitation, either for each line item or for the total order, shall be placed on each unpriced purchase order. The monetary limitation shall be an obligation subject to adjustment when the firm price is established. The contracting office shall follow up on each order to ensure timely pricing. The contracting officer or the contracting officer’s designated representative shall review the invoice price and, if reasonable (see 13.106-3(a)), process the invoice for payment.
22.1023 Termination for default. No subsections found.
1.101 Purpose. No subsections found.
50.103-1 General. No subsections found.
9.107 Surveys of nonprofit agencies participating in the AbilityOne Program. (a) (a) The Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Committee), as authorized by 41 U.S.C. chapter 85, determines what supplies and services Federal agencies are required to purchase from AbilityOne participating nonprofit agencies serving people who are blind or have other severe disabilities (see subpart  8.7). The Committee is required to find an AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency capable of furnishing the supplies or services before the nonprofit agency can be designated as a mandatory source under the AbilityOne Program. The Committee may request a contracting office to assist in assessing the capabilities of a nonprofit agency. (b) (b) The contracting office, upon request from the Committee, shall request a capability survey from the activity responsible for performing preaward surveys, or notify the Committee that the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency is capable, with supporting rationale, and that the survey is waived. The capability survey will focus on the technical and production capabilities and applicable preaward survey elements to furnish specific supplies or services being considered for addition to the Procurement List. (c) (c) The contracting office shall use the Standard Form 1403 to request a capability survey of organizations employing people who are blind or have other severe disabilities. (d) (d) The contracting office shall furnish a copy of the completed survey, or notice that the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency is capable and the survey is waived, to the Executive Director, Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
14.404-1 Cancellation of invitations after opening. (a) (a) (b) (b) When it is determined before award but after opening that the requirements of 11.201 (relating to the availability and identification of specifications) have not been met, the invitation shall be cancelled. (c) (c) Invitations may be cancelled and all bids rejected before award but after opening when, consistent with subparagraph (a)(1) of this section, the agency head determines in writing that- (d) (d) Should administrative difficulties be encountered after bid opening that may delay award beyond bidders’ acceptance periods, the several lowest bidders whose bids have not expired (irrespective of the acceptance period specified in the bid) should be requested, before expiration of their bids, to extend in writing the bid acceptance period (with consent of sureties, if any) in order to avoid the need for resoliciting. (e) (e) Under some circumstances, completion of the acquisition after cancellation of the invitation for bids may be appropriate. (f) (f) When the agency head has determined, in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this subsection, that an invitation for bids should be canceled and that use of negotiation is in the Government’s interest, the contracting officer may negotiate (in accordance with part  15, as appropriate) and make award without issuing a new solicitation provided-
Subpart 22.21 - Establishing Paid Sick Leave For Federal Contractors No subsections found.
39.202 Definition. No subsections found.
47.305-4 F.o.b. destination solicitations. (a) (a) When preparing f.o.b destination solicitations, the contracting officer shall refer to 47.303 for the prescription of f.o.b. destination clauses relating to standard delivery terms. (b) (b) If f.o.b. destination only offers are desired, the solicitation shall state that offers submitted on a basis other than f.o.b. destination will be rejected as nonresponsive. (c) (c) When supplies will or may be purchased f.o.b. destination but inspection and acceptance will be at origin, the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-48, F.o.b. Destination-Evidence of Shipment.
31.204 Application of principles and procedures. (a) (a) Costs are allowable to the extent they are reasonable, allocable, and determined to be allowable under 31.201, 31.202, 31.203, and 31.205. These criteria apply to all of the selected items that follow, even if particular guidance is provided for certain items for emphasis or clarity. (b) (b) (c) (c) Costs incurred as payments under firm-fixed-price subcontracts or fixed-price subcontracts with economic price adjustment provisions or modifications thereto, for which subcontract cost analysis was performed are allowable if the price was negotiated in accordance with 31.102. (d) (d) Section 31.205 does not cover every element of cost. Failure to include any item of cost does not imply that it is either allowable or unallowable. The determination of allowability shall be based on the principles and standards in this subpart and the treatment of similar or related selected items. When more than one subsection in 31.205 is relevant to a contractor cost, the cost shall be apportioned among the applicable subsections, and the determination of allowability of each portion shall be based on the guidance contained in the applicable subsection. When a cost, to which more than one subsection in 31.205 is relevant, cannot be apportioned, the determination of allowability shall be based on the guidance contained in the subsection that most specifically deals with, or best captures the essential nature of, the cost at issue.
Subpart 4.7 - Contractor Records Retention No subsections found.
5.406 Public disclosure of justification documents for certain contract actions. (a) (a) Justifications and approvals for other than full and open competition must be posted in accordance with 6.305. (b) (b) Limited-source justifications (excluding brand name) for FSS orders or blanket purchase agreements with an estimated value greater than the simplified acquisition threshold must be posted in accordance with 8.405-6(a)(2). (c) (c) Justifications for task or delivery orders greater than the simplified acquisition threshold and awarded without providing for fair opportunity must be posted in accordance with 16.505(b)(2)(ii)(D).
41.501 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) Because the terms and conditions under which utility suppliers furnish service may vary from area to area, the differences may influence the terms and conditions appropriate to a particular utility’s contracting situation. To accommodate requirements that are peculiar to the contracting situation, this section prescribes provisions and clauses on a "substantially the same as" basis (see 52.101) which permits the contracting officer to prepare and utilize variations of the prescribed provision and clauses in accordance with agency procedures. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations for utility services a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.241-1, Electric Service Territory Compliance Representation, when proposals from alternative electric suppliers are sought. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts for utility services clauses substantially the same as the clauses at- (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert clauses substantially the same as the clauses listed below in solicitations and contracts under the prescribed conditions- (e) (e) Depending on the conditions that are appropriate for each acquisition, the contracting officer shall also insert in solicitations and contracts for utility services the provisions and clauses prescribed elsewhere in the FAR.
52.243-5 Changes and Changed Conditions. (a) (a) The Contracting Officer may, in writing, order changes in the drawings and specifications within the general scope of the contract. (b) (b) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, of subsurface or latent physical conditions differing materially from those indicated in this contract or unknown unusual physical conditions at the site before proceeding with the work. (c) (c) If changes under paragraph (a) or conditions under paragraph (b) increase or decrease the cost of, or time required for performing the work, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment (see paragraph (d)) upon submittal of a "proposal for adjustment" (hereafter referred to as proposal) by the Contractor before final payment under the contract. (d) (d) The Contracting Officer shall not make an equitable adjustment under paragraph (b) unless- (e) (e) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause.
19.1303 Status as a HUBZone small business concern. (a) (a) Status as a HUBZone small business concern is determined by the Small Business Administration (SBA) in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126. (b) (b) If SBA determines that a concern is a HUBZone small business, it will designate the concern as a HUBZone small business in the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) at https://web.sba.gov/​pro-net/​search/​dsp_​dsbs.cfm. SBA's designation also appears in SAM. Only firms designated in DSBS and SAM as HUBZone small business concerns are eligible for HUBZone preferences. HUBZone preferences are not contingent on the place of performance. (c) (c) A joint venture may be considered a HUBZone small business concern if— (d) (d) To be eligible for a HUBZone contract under this section, a HUBZone small business concern must be a HUBZone small business concern at the time of its initial offer.
52.204-24 Representation Regarding Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision— (b) (b) Prohibition. (c) (c) Procedures. The Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System for Award Management (SAM) (https://www.sam.gov) for entities excluded from receiving federal awards for "covered telecommunications equipment or services". (d) (d) Representation. The Offeror represents that— (e) (e) Disclosures.
32.304-1 Application for guarantee. (a) (a) A contractor, subcontractor, or supplier that needs operating funds to perform a contract related to national defense may apply to a financing institution for a loan. If the financing institution is willing to extend credit, but considers a Government guarantee necessary, the institution may apply to the Federal Reserve Bank of its district for the guarantee. Application forms and guidance are available at all Federal Reserve Banks. (b) (b) The Federal Reserve Bank will promptly send a copy of the application, including a list of the relevant defense contracts held by the contractor, to the Federal Reserve Board. The Board will transmit the application and the list of contracts to the interested guaranteeing agency, so that the agency can determine the eligibility of the contractor. (c) (c) To expedite the process, the Federal Reserve Bank may, pursuant to instructions of a guaranteeing agency, submit lists of the defense contracts to the interested contracting officers. (d) (d) While eligibility is being determined, the Federal Reserve Bank will make any necessary credit investigations to supplement the information furnished by the applicant financing institution in order to- (e) (e) The Federal Reserve Bank will send its report and recommendation to the Federal Reserve Board. The Board will transmit them to the interested guaranteeing agency.
36.303-1 Phase One. (a) (a) Phase One of the solicitation(s) shall include- (b) (b) After evaluating phase-one proposals, the contracting officer shall select the most highly qualified offerors (not to exceed the maximum number specified in the solicitation in accordance with 36.303-1(a)(4)) and request that only those offerors submit phase-two proposals.
46.804 [Reserved] No subsections found.
51.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
25.302 Contractors performing private security functions outside the United States. No subsections found.
37.102 Policy. (a) (a) Performance-based acquisition (see subpart  37.6) is the preferred method for acquiring services (Public Law106-398, section 821). When acquiring services, including those acquired under supply contracts or orders, agencies must- (b) (b) Agencies shall generally rely on the private sector for commercial services (see OMB Circular No. A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities and subpart  7.3). (c) (c) Agencies shall not award a contract for the performance of an inherently governmental function (see subpart  7.5). (d) (d) Non-personal service contracts are proper under general contracting authority. (e) (e) Agency program officials are responsible for accurately describing the need to be filled, or problem to be resolved, through service contracting in a manner that ensures full understanding and responsive performance by contractors and, in so doing, should obtain assistance from contracting officials, as needed. To the maximum extent practicable, the program officials shall describe the need to be filled using performance-based acquisition methods. (f) (f) Agencies shall establish effective management practices in accordance with Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) Policy Letter 93-1, Management Oversight of Service Contracting, to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse in service contracting. (g) (g) Services are to be obtained in the most cost-effective manner, without barriers to full and open competition, and free of any potential conflicts of interest. (h) (h) Agencies shall ensure that sufficiently trained and experienced officials are available within the agency to manage and oversee the contract administration function. (i) (i) Agencies shall ensure that service contracts that require the delivery, use, or furnishing of products are consistent with  subpart  23.1 (see 23.103(c)). (j) (j) Except for DoD, see 15.101-2(d) for limitations on the use of the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process to acquire certain services.
3.700 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes Governmentwide policies and procedures for exercising discretionary authority to declare void and rescind contracts in relation to which- (b) (b) This subpart does not prescribe policies or procedures for, or govern the exercise of, any other remedy available to the Government with respect to such contracts, including but not limited to, the common law right of avoidance, rescission, or cancellation.
12.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
17.804 Procedures. (a) (a) When considering the use of a reverse auction service provider, the contracting officer shall— (b) (b) When conducting a reverse auction, the contracting officer shall— (c) (c) When using the services of a reverse auction service provider, contracting officers shall— (d) (d) If only one offeror participates in an auction, the contracting officer may—
Subpart 23.1 - Sustainable Products and Services No subsections found.
49.402-4 Procedure in lieu of termination for default. (a) (a) Permit the contractor, the surety, or the guarantor, to continue performance of the contract under a revised delivery schedule. (b) (b) Permit the contractor to continue performance of the contract by means of a subcontract or other business arrangement with an acceptable third party, provided the rights of the Government are adequately preserved. (c) (c) If the requirement for the supplies and services in the contract no longer exists, and the contractor is not liable to the Government for damages as provided in 49.402-7, execute a no-cost termination settlement agreement using the formats in 49.603-6 and 49.603-7 as a guide.
15.307 Proposal revisions. (a) (a) If an offeror’s proposal is eliminated or otherwise removed from the competitive range, no further revisions to that offeror’s proposal shall be accepted or considered. (b) (b) The contracting officer may request or allow proposal revisions to clarify and document understandings reached during negotiations. At the conclusion of discussions, each offeror still in the competitive range shall be given an opportunity to submit a final proposal revision. The contracting officer is required to establish a common cut-off date only for receipt of final proposal revisions. Requests for final proposal revisions shall advise offerors that the final proposal revisions shall be in writing and that the Government intends to make award without obtaining further revisions.
22.305 Contract clause. (a) (a) Valued at or below $150,000; (b) (b) For commercial products and commercial services; (c) (c) For transportation or the transmission of intelligence; (d) (d) To be performed outside the United States, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Johnston Island, Wake Island, and the outer Continental Shelf as defined in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331) (29 CFR5.15); (e) (e) ) For work to be done solely in accordance with 41 U.S.C. chapter 65, (see subpart  22.6); (f) (f) For supplies that include incidental services that do not require substantial employment of laborers or mechanics; or (g) (g) Exempt under regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR5.15).
52.211-5 Material Requirements. (a) (a) Definitions. (b) (b) Unless this contract otherwise requires virgin material or supplies composed of or manufactured from virgin material, the Contractor shall provide supplies that are new, reconditioned, or remanufactured, as defined in this clause. (c) (c) A proposal to provide unused former Government surplus property shall include a complete description of the material, the quantity, the name of the Government agency from which acquired, and the date of acquisition. (d) (d) A proposal to provide used, reconditioned, or remanufactured supplies shall include a detailed description of such supplies and shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer for approval. (e) (e) Used, reconditioned, or remanufactured supplies, or unused former Government surplus property, may be used in contract performance if the Contractor has proposed the use of such supplies, and the Contracting Officer has authorized their use.
Subpart 32.3 - Loan Guarantees for Defense Production No subsections found.
44.307 Reports. (a) (a) The cognizant contract audit office; (b) (b) Activities prescribed by the cognizant agency; and (c) (c) The contractor (except that furnishing copies of the contractor’s response is optional).
52.233-1 Disputes. (a) (a) This contract is subject to 41 U.S.C chapter 71, Contract Disputes. (b) (b) Except as provided in 41 U.S.C chapter 71, all disputes arising under or relating to this contract shall be resolved under this clause. (c) (c) "Claim," as used in this clause, means a written demand or written assertion by one of the contracting parties seeking, as a matter of right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or interpretation of contract terms, or other relief arising under or relating to this contract. However, a written demand or written assertion by the Contractor seeking the payment of money exceeding $100,000 is not a claim under 41 U.S.C chapter 71 until certified. A voucher, invoice, or other routine request for payment that is not in dispute when submitted is not a claim under 41 U.S.C chapter 71. The submission may be converted to a claim under 41 U.S.C chapter 71, by complying with the submission and certification requirements of this clause, if it is disputed either as to liability or amount or is not acted upon in a reasonable time. (d) (d) (e) (e) For Contractor claims of $100,000 or less, the Contracting Officer must, if requested in writing by the Contractor, render a decision within 60 days of the request. For Contractor-certified claims over $100,000, the Contracting Officer must, within 60 days, decide the claim or notify the Contractor of the date by which the decision will be made. (f) (f) The Contracting Officer’s decision shall be final unless the Contractor appeals or files a suit as provided in 41 U.S.C chapter 71. (g) (g) If the claim by the Contractor is submitted to the Contracting Officer or a claim by the Government is presented to the Contractor, the parties, by mutual consent, may agree to use alternative dispute resolution (ADR). If the Contractor refuses an offer for ADR, the Contractor shall inform the Contracting Officer, in writing, of the Contractor’s specific reasons for rejecting the offer. (h) (h) The Government shall pay interest on the amount found due and unpaid from (1) the date that the Contracting Officer receives the claim (certified, if required); or (2) the date that payment otherwise would be due, if that date is later, until the date of payment. With regard to claims having defective certifications, as defined in FAR 33.201, interest shall be paid from the date that the Contracting Officer initially receives the claim. Simple interest on claims shall be paid at the rate, fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in the Act, which is applicable to the period during which the Contracting Officer receives the claim and then at the rate applicable for each 6-month period as fixed by the Treasury Secretary during the pendency of the claim. (i) (i) The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any request for relief, claim, appeal, or action arising under the contract, and comply with any decision of the Contracting Officer.
11.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
15.403-3 Requiring data other than certified cost or pricing data. (a) (a) (b) (b) Adequate price competition. When adequate price competition exists (see 15.403-1(c)(1)), generally no additional data are necessary to determine the reasonableness of price. However, if there are unusual circumstances where it is concluded that additional data are necessary to determine the reasonableness of price, the contracting officer shall, to the maximum extent practicable, obtain the additional data from sources other than the offeror. In addition, the contracting officer should request data to determine the cost realism of competing offers or to evaluate competing approaches. (c) (c) Commercial products and commercial services.
4.2001 Definitions. No subsections found.
30.201-6 Findings. No subsections found.
22.2108 Multiemployer plans or other funds, plans, or programs. No subsections found.
26.602 Applicability. No subsections found.
42.1101 General. (a) (a) Contractor performance plans, schedules, controls, and industrial processes; and (b) (b) The contractor’s actual performance under them.
Subpart 9.5 - Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest No subsections found.
52.222-3 Convict Labor. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not employ in the performance of this contract any person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court of a State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the U.S. Virgin Islands. (b) (b) The Contractor is not prohibited from employing persons-
9.206-1 General. (a) (a) Agencies may not enforce any QPL, QML, or QBL without first complying with the requirements of 9.202(a). However, qualification requirements themselves, whether or not previously embodied in a in a QPL, QML, or QBL, may be enforced without regard to 9.202(a) if they are in either of the following categories: (b) (b) Except when the agency head or designee determines that an emergency exists, whenever an agency elects, whether before or after award, not to enforce a qualification requirement which it established, the requirement may not thereafter be enforced unless the agency complies with 9.202(a). (c) (c) If a qualification requirement applies, the contracting officer need consider only those offers identified as meeting the requirement or included on the applicable QPL, QML, or QBL, unless an offeror can satisfactorily demonstrate to the contracting officer that it or its product or its subcontractor or its product can meet the standards established for qualification before the date specified for award. (d) (d) If a product subject to a qualification requirement is to be acquired as a component of an end item, the contracting officer must ensure that all such components and their qualification requirements are properly identified in the solicitation since the product or source must meet the standards specified for qualification before award. (e) (e) In acquisitions subject to qualification requirements, the contracting officer shall take the following steps:
13.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
36.203 Government estimate of construction costs. (a) (a) An independent Government estimate of construction costs shall be prepared and furnished to the contracting officer at the earliest practicable time for each proposed contract and for each contract modification anticipated to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. The contracting officer may require an estimate when the cost of required work is not anticipated to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. The estimate shall be prepared in as much detail as though the Government were competing for award. (b) (b) When two-step sealed bidding is used, the independent Government estimate shall be prepared when the contract requirements are definitized. (c) (c) Access to information concerning the Government estimate shall be limited to Government personnel whose official duties require knowledge of the estimate. An exception to this rule may be made during contract negotiations to allow the contracting officer to identify a specialized task and disclose the associated cost breakdown figures in the Government estimate, but only to the extent deemed necessary to arrive at a fair and reasonable price. The overall amount of the Government’s estimate shall not be disclosed except as permitted by agency regulations.
52.215-13 Subcontractor Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. (a) (a) The requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause shall— (b) (b) Before awarding any subcontract expected to exceed the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1), on the date of agreement on price or the date of award, whichever is later; or before pricing any subcontract modification involving a pricing adjustment expected to exceed the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1), the Contractor shall require the subcontractor to submit certified cost or pricing data (actually or by specific identification in writing), in accordance with FAR 15.408, Table 15-2 (to include any information reasonably required to explain the subcontractor's estimating process such as the judgmental factors applied and the mathematical or other methods used in the estimate, including those used in projecting from known data, and the nature and amount of any contingencies included in the price), unless an exception under FAR 15.403-1(b) applies. If the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data specified in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1) is adjusted for inflation as set forth in FAR 1.109(a), then pursuant to FAR 1.109(d) the changed threshold applies throughout the remaining term of the contract, unless there is a subsequent threshold adjustment. (c) (c) The Contractor shall require the subcontractor to certify in substantially the form prescribed in FAR 15.406-2 that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the data submitted under paragraph (b) of this clause were accurate, complete, and current as of the date of agreement on the negotiated price of the subcontract or subcontract modification. (d) (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in each subcontract that exceeds the threshold for submission of certified cost or pricing data in FAR 15.403-4(a)(1) on the date of agreement on price or the date of award, whichever is later.
50.201 Definitions. No subsections found.
27.201-2 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.227-2, Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement, in all solicitations and contracts that include the clause at 52.227-1, Authorization and Consent. (c) (c) (d) (d) (e) (e) It may be in the Government’s interest to exempt specific U.S. patents from the patent indemnity clause. Exclusion from indemnity of identified patents, as distinguished from items, is the prerogative of the agency head. Upon written approval of the agency head, the contracting officer may insert the clause at 52.227-5, Waiver of Indemnity, in solicitations and contracts in addition to the appropriate patent indemnity clause. (f) (f) If a patent indemnity clause is not prescribed, the contracting officer may include one in the solicitation and contract if it is in the Government’s interest to do so. (g) (g) The contracting officer shall not include in any solicitation or contract any clause whereby the Government agrees to indemnify a contractor for patent infringement.
22.1007 Requirement to obtain wage determinations. (a) (a) Each new solicitation and contract in excess of $2,500. (b) (b) Each contract modification which brings the contract above $2,500 and- (c) (c) Each multiple year contract in excess of $2,500 upon-
42.001 [Reserved] No subsections found.
9.308-2 Testing performed by the Government. (a) (a) (b) (b)
32.704 Limitation of cost or funds. (a) (a) (b) (b) Under a cost-reimbursement contract, the contracting officer may issue a change order, a direction to replace or repair defective items or work, or a termination notice without immediately increasing the funds available. Since a contractor is not obligated to incur costs in excess of the estimated cost in the contract, the contracting officer shall ensure availability of funds for directed actions. The contracting officer may direct that any increase in the estimated cost or amount allotted to a contract be used for the sole purpose of funding termination or other specified expenses. (c) (c) Government personnel encouraging a contractor to continue work in the absence of funds will incur a violation of Revised Statutes section 3679 (31 U.S.C. 1341) that may subject the violator to civil or criminal penalties.
22.404-8 Notification of improper wage determination before award. (a) (a) The following written notifications by the Department of Labor shall be effective immediately without regard to 22.404-6 if received by the contracting officer prior to award: (b) (b) In sealed bidding, the contracting officer shall proceed in accordance with the following: (c) (c) In negotiated acquisitions, the contracting officer shall delay award, if necessary, and process the notification of an improper wage determination for the primary site of the work in the manner prescribed for a new wage determination at 22.404-5(c)(3).
31.205-40 Special tooling and special test equipment costs. (a) (a) The terms “ special tooling” and “ special test equipment” are defined in 2.101. (b) (b) The cost of special tooling and special test equipment used in performing one or more Government contracts is allowable and shall be allocated to the specific Government contract or contracts for which acquired, except that the cost of- (c) (c) When items are disqualified as special tooling or special test equipment because with relatively minor expense they can be made suitable for general purpose use and have a value as such commensurate with their value as special tooling or special test equipment, the cost of adapting the items for use under the contract and the cost of returning them to their prior configuration are allowable.
22.1902 Policy. (a) (a) Pursuant to Executive Order 14026, the minimum hourly wage rate required to be paid to workers performing on, or in connection with, contracts and subcontracts subject to this subpart is— (b) (b) Relationship with other wage rates. (c) (c) Application to tipped workers. Policies and procedures in DOL regulations at 29 CFR 23.240(b) and 23.280 address the relationship between the E.O. minimum wage and wages of workers engaged in an occupation in which they customarily and regularly receive more than $30 a month in tips.
22.809 Enforcement. (a) (a) Publication of the names of the contractor or its unions. (b) (b) Cancellation, termination, or suspension of the contractor’s contracts or portion thereof. (c) (c) Debarment from future Government contracts, or extensions or modifications of existing contracts, until the contractor has established and carried out personnel and employment policies in compliance with E.O. 11246 and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (d) (d) Referral by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of any matter arising under E.O. 11246 to the Department of Justice or to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for the institution of appropriate civil or criminal proceedings.
52.247-16 Contractor Responsibility for Returning Undelivered Freight. (a) (a) When, through no fault of the Contractor, a shipment cannot be delivered, the Contractor shall contact the shipper for disposition instructions. If the shipment is ordered returned to the origin point, the charges assessed for the return trip shall be the same as the charges assessed for the outbound trip. The shipper shall maintain a record of the goods that, through no fault of the Contractor, could not be delivered and are returned to the shipper. If, at a future date, the returned goods are determined to be related to a claim against the Contractor, the claim will be adjusted accordingly. (b) (b) When, through the fault of the Contractor, a shipment cannot be delivered, the Contractor shall return the shipment to the origin point at no charge to the Government. Any charges incurred for redelivery, which are in excess of the charges that would have been incurred under this contract, shall be for the Contractor’s account in accordance with the Default clause of the contract.
47.200 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart prescribes procedures for the acquisition by sealed bid or negotiated contracts of- (b) (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, this subpart does not apply to- (c) (c) With appropriate modifications, the procedures in this subpart may be applied to the acquisition of freight transportation from the carriers listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and passenger transportation from any carrier or mode. (d) (d) The procedures in this subpart are applicable to the transportation of household goods of persons being relocated at Government expense except when acquired- (e) (e) Additional guidance for DoD acquisition of freight and passenger transportation is in the Defense Transportation Regulation.
3.907-7 	Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.232-18 Availability of Funds. No subsections found.
29.204 Federal excise tax on specific foreign contract payments. (a) (a) Title 26 U.S.C. 5000C and its implementing regulations at 26 CFR 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-7 require acquiring agencies to collect this excise tax via withholding on applicable contract payments (see 29.402-3, 31.205-41(b)(8)). Agencies merely withhold the tax (section 5000C tax) for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). All substantive issues regarding the underlying section 5000C tax, e.g., the imposition of, and exemption from the tax, are matters under the jurisdiction of the IRS. The contracting officer will refer all questions relating to the interpretation of the IRS regulations to https://www.irs.gov/help/tax-law-questions. (b) (b) In accordance with the clause 52.229-12, Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements, contractors that are subject to the section 5000C tax will complete IRS Form W-14, Certificate of Foreign Contracting Party Receiving Federal Procurement Payments, and submit this form with each voucher or invoice. In the absence of a completed IRS Form W-14 accompanying a payment request, the default withholding percentage is 2 percent for the section 5000C withholding for that payment request. Information about IRS Form W-14 is available via the internet at www.irs.gov/w14. (c) (c) (d) (d) The exemptions in 29.201 through 29.302 do not apply to this section 5000C tax. (e) (e) Additional information about this excise tax on specific foreign contract payments is available via the internet at https://www.irs.gov/government-entities/excise-tax-on-specified-federal-foreign-procurement-payments.
52.217 [Reserved] No subsections found.
15.101-2 Lowest price technically acceptable source selection process. (a) (a) The lowest price technically acceptable source selection process is appropriate when best value is expected to result from selection of the technically acceptable proposal with the lowest evaluated price. (b) (b) When using the lowest price technically acceptable process, the following apply: (c) (c) Except for DoD, in accordance with section 880 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232, 41 U.S.C. 3701 Note), the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process shall only be used when— (d) (d) Except for DoD, in accordance with section 880 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232, 41 U.S.C. 3701 Note), contracting officers shall avoid, to the maximum extent practicable, using the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process in the case of a procurement that is predominantly for the acquisition of—
32.503-14 Protection of Government title. (a) (a) Since the Progress Payments clause gives the Government title to all of the materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and other items of property described in paragraph (d) of the Progress Payments clause, under the contract under which progress payments have been made, the ACO must ensure that the Government title to these inventories is not compromised by other encumbrances. Ordinarily, the ACO, in the absence of reason to believe otherwise, may rely upon the contractor’s certification contained in the progress payment request. (b) (b) If the ACO becomes aware of any arrangement or condition that would impair the Government’s title to the property affected by progress payment, the ACO shall require additional protective provisions (see 32.501-5) to establish and protect the Government’s title. (c) (c) The existence of any such encumbrance is a violation of the contractor’s obligations under the contract, and the ACO may, if necessary, suspend or reduce progress payments under the terms of the Progress Payments clause covering failure to comply with any material requirement of the contract. In addition, if the contractor fails to disclose an existing encumbrance in the progress payments certification, the ACO should consult with legal counsel concerning possible violation of 31 U.S.C.3729, the False Claims Act.
49.100 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) This subpart deals with- (b) (b) Additional principles applicable to the termination for convenience and settlement of fixed-price and cost-reimbursement contracts are included in subparts  49.2 and 49.3. Additional principles applicable to the termination of contracts for default are included in subpart  49.4.
8.406-2 Inspection and acceptance. (a) (a) Supplies. (b) (b) Services. The ordering activity has the right to inspect all services in accordance with the contract requirements and as called for by the order. The ordering activity shall perform inspections and tests as specified in the order’s quality assurance surveillance plan in a manner that will not unduly delay the work.
14.401 Receipt and safeguarding of bids. (a) (a) All bids (including modifications) received before the time set for the opening of bids shall be kept secure. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the bids shall not be opened or viewed, and shall remain in a locked bid box, a safe, or in a secured, restricted-access electronic bid box. If an invitation for bids is cancelled, bids shall be returned to the bidders. Necessary precautions shall be taken to ensure the security of the bid box or safe. Before bid opening, information concerning the identity and number of bids received shall be made available only to Government employees. Such disclosure shall be only on a "need to know" basis. When bid samples are submitted, they shall be handled with sufficient care to prevent disclosure of characteristics before bid opening. (b) (b) Envelopes marked as bids but not identifying the bidder or the solicitation may be opened solely for the purpose of identification, and then only by an official designated for this purpose. If a sealed bid is opened by mistake (e.g., because it is not marked as being a bid), the envelope shall be signed by the opener, whose position shall also be written thereon, and delivered to the designated official. This official shall immediately write on the envelope (1)an explanation of the opening, (2) the date and time opened, and (3) the invitation for bids number, and shall sign the envelope. The official shall then immediately reseal the envelope.
5.001 Definition. No subsections found.
32.113 Customary contract financing. (a) (a) Financing of shipbuilding, or ship conversion, alteration, or repair, when agency regulations provide for progress payments based on a percentage or stage of completion. (b) (b) Financing of construction or architect-engineer services purchased under the authority of part  36. (c) (c) Financing of contracts for supplies or services awarded under the sealed bid method of procurement in accordance with part  14 through progress payments based on costs in accordance with subpart  32.5. (d) (d) Financing of contracts for supplies or services awarded under the competitive negotiation method of procurement in accordance with part  15, through either progress payments based on costs in accordance with subpart  32.5, or performance-based payments in accordance with subpart  32.10 (but not both). (e) (e) Financing of contracts for supplies or services awarded under a sole-source acquisition as defined in 2.101 and using the procedures of part  15, through either progress payments based on costs in accordance with subpart  32.5, or performance-based payments in accordance with subpart  32.10 (but not both). (f) (f) Financing of contracts for supplies or services through advance payments in accordance with subpart  32.4. (g) (g) Financing of contracts for supplies or services through guaranteed loans in accordance with subpart  32.3. (h) (h) Financing of contracts for supplies or services through any appropriate combination of advance payments, guaranteed loans, and either performance-based payments or progress payments (but not both) in accordance with their respective subparts.
Subpart 19.2 - Policies No subsections found.
42.709-4 Assessing the penalty. (a) (a) Assess the penalty in 42.709-2(a)(1), when the submitted cost is expressly unallowable under a cost principle in the FAR or an executive agency supplement that defines the allowability of specific selected costs; or (b) (b) Assess the penalty in 42.709-2(a)(2), when the submitted cost was determined to be unallowable for that contractor prior to submission of the proposal. Prior determinations of unallowability may be evidenced by- (c) (c) Issue a final decision (see 33.211) which includes a demand for payment of any penalty assessed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. The letter shall state that the determination is a final decision under the Disputes clause of the contract. (Demanding payment of the penalty is separate from demanding repayment of any paid portion of the disallowed cost.)
52.247-2 Permits, Authorities, or Franchises. (a) (a) The offeror does □, does not □, hold authorization from the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) or other cognizant regulatory body. If authorization is held, it is as follows: (b) (b) The offeror shall furnish to the Government, if requested, copies of the authorization before moving the material under any contract awarded. In addition, the offeror shall, at the offeror’s expense, obtain and maintain any permits, franchises, licenses, and other authorities issued by State and local governments.
47.301-3 Using the Defense Transportation System (DTS). (a) (a) All military and civilian agencies shipping, or arranging for the acquisition and shipment by Government contractors, through the use of military-controlled transport or through military transshipment facilities shall follow Department of Defense (DoD) Regulation DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation Part II. This establishes uniform procedures and documents for the generation, documentation, communication, and use of transportation information, thus providing the capability for control of shipments moving in the DTS. DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation Part II has been implemented on a world-wide basis. (b) (b) Contracting activities are responsible for (1) ensuring that the requirements of the DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation Part II regulation are included in appropriate contracts for all applicable shipments and (2) enforcing these requirements with regard to shipments under their control. This includes requirements relating to documentation, marking, advance notification of shipment dates, and terminal clearances. (c) (c) Contractual documents shall designate a contract administration office (see 42.202(a)) as the contact point to which the contractor will provide necessary information to-
14.201-9 Simplified contract format. (a) (a) Solicitation/contract form. Standard Form (SF) 1447, Solicitation/Contract, shall be used as the first page of the solicitation. (b) (b) Contract schedule. Include the following for each line item: (c) (c) Clauses. Include the clauses required by this regulation. Additional clauses shall be incorporated only when considered absolutely necessary to the particular acquisition. (d) (d) List of documents and attachments. Include if necessary. (e) (e) Representations and instructions-
31.603 Requirements. (a) (a) Contracts that refer to this subpart  31.6 for determining allowable costs under contracts with State, local and Indian tribal governments shall be deemed to refer to, and shall have the allowability of costs determined by the contracting officer in accordance with, the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and appendices V and VII, in effect on the date of the contract. (b) (b) Agencies are not expected to place additional restrictions on individual items of cost. However, under 10 U.S.C. 3744, 41 U.S.C.4304, 31 U.S.C. 3730, and 41 U.S.C. 4310, the following costs are unallowable:
23.403 Emergency planning and toxic release reporting. (a) (a) Federal facilities are required to comply with the emergency planning and toxic release reporting requirements in EPCRA and PPA. (b) (b) Pursuant to EPCRA, PPA, and any agency implementing procedures, every contract that provides for performance on a Federal facility shall require the contractor to provide information necessary for the Federal agency to comply with paragraph (a) of this section.
52.232-25 Prompt Payment. (a) (a) Invoice payments- (b) (b) Contract financing payment. If this contract provides for contract financing, the Government will make contract financing payments in accordance with the applicable contract financing clause. (c) (c) Fast payment procedure due dates. If this contract contains the clause at 52.213-1, Fast Payment Procedure, payments will be made within 15 days after the date of receipt of the invoice. (d) (d) Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-
Part 33 Protests, Disputes, and Appeals No subsections found.
53.249 Termination of contracts. (a) (a) The following forms are prescribed for use in connection with the termination of contracts, as specified in subpart  49.6. These forms are available at the GSA Forms Library at https://www.gsa.gov/forms. These forms are authorized for local reproduction except for SF 1034. (b) (b) SF 1428 (Rev. 6/2007), Inventory Disposal Schedule, and Standard Form 1429 (Rev. 1/2016), Inventory Disposal Schedule-Continuation Sheet, shall be used to support termination settlement proposals listed in paragraph (a) of this section, as specified in 49.602-2. These forms are available at the GSA Forms Library at https://www.gsa.gov/forms.
9.500 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Prescribes responsibilities, general rules, and procedures for identifying, evaluating, and resolving organizational conflicts of interest; (b) (b) Provides examples to assist contracting officers in applying these rules and procedures to individual contracting situations; and (c) (c) Implements section 8141 of the 1989 Department of Defense Appropriation Act, Pub.L.100-463, 102 Stat.2270-47 (1988).
45.401 Title to Government-furnished property. No subsections found.
52.209-2 Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations-Representation. (a) (a) Definitions. "Inverted domestic corporation" and "subsidiary" have the meaning given in the clause of this contract entitled Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (52.209-10). (b) (b) Government agencies are not permitted to use appropriated (or otherwise made available) funds for contracts with either an inverted domestic corporation, or a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation, unless the exception at 9.108-2(b) applies or the requirement is waived in accordance with the procedures at 9.108-4. (c) (c) Representation. The Offeror represents that-
22.406-1 Policy. (a) (a) General. Contracting agencies are responsible for ensuring the full and impartial enforcement of labor standards in the administration of construction contracts. Contracting agencies shall maintain an effective program that shall include- (b) (b) Preconstruction letters and conferences. Before construction begins, the contracting officer shall inform the contractor of the labor standards clauses and wage determination requirements of the contract and of the contractor’s and any subcontractor’s responsibilities under the contract. Unless it is clear that the contractor is fully aware of the requirements, the contracting officer shall issue an explanatory letter and/or arrange a conference with the contractor promptly after award of the contract.
52.222-46 Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees. (a) (a) Recompetition of service contracts may in some cases result in lowering the compensation (salaries and fringe benefits) paid or furnished professional employees. This lowering can be detrimental in obtaining the quality of professional services needed for adequate contract performance. It is therefore in the Government’s best interest that professional employees, as defined in 29 CFR 541, be properly and fairly compensated. As part of their proposals, offerors will submit a total compensation plan setting forth salaries and fringe benefits proposed for the professional employees who will work under the contract. The Government will evaluate the plan to assure that it reflects a sound management approach and understanding of the contract requirements. This evaluation will include an assessment of the offeror’s ability to provide uninterrupted high-quality work. The professional compensation proposed will be considered in terms of its impact upon recruiting and retention, its realism, and its consistency with a total plan for compensation. Supporting information will include data, such as recognized national and regional compensation surveys and studies of professional, public and private organizations, used in establishing the total compensation structure. (b) (b) The compensation levels proposed should reflect a clear understanding of work to be performed and should indicate the capability of the proposed compensation structure to obtain and keep suitably qualified personnel to meet mission objectives. The salary rates or ranges must take into account differences in skills, the complexity of various disciplines, and professional job difficulty. Additionally, proposals envisioning compensation levels lower than those of predecessor contractors for the same work will be evaluated on the basis of maintaining program continuity, uninterrupted high-quality work, and availability of required competent professional service employees. Offerors are cautioned that lowered compensation for essentially the same professional work may indicate lack of sound management judgment and lack of understanding of the requirement. (c) (c) The Government is concerned with the quality and stability of the work force to be employed on this contract. Professional compensation that is unrealistically low or not in reasonable relationship to the various job categories, since it may impair the Contractor’s ability to attract and retain competent professional service employees, may be viewed as evidence of failure to comprehend the complexity of the contract requirements. (d) (d) Failure to comply with these provisions may constitute sufficient cause to justify rejection of a proposal.
46.311 Higher-level contract quality requirement. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.246-11, Higher-Level Contract Quality Requirement, in solicitations and contracts when the inclusion of a higher-level contract quality requirement is necessary (see 46.202-4). (b) (b) For each higher-level quality standard, the contracting officer shall fill in the title, number, date, and tailoring (if any).
22.1306 Department of Labor notices and reports. (a) (a) The contracting officer must furnish to the contractor appropriate notices for posting when they are prescribed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Labor (see http://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/ofccpost.htm). (b) (b) The Act requires contractors and subcontractors to submit a report at least annually to the Secretary of Labor regarding employment of protected veterans (i.e., active duty wartime or campaign badge veterans, Armed Forces service medal veterans, disabled veterans, and recently separated veterans, unless all of the terms of the clause at 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans, have been waived see 22.1305). The contractor and subcontractor must file VETS-4212, Federal Contractor Veterans’ Employment Report (see "VETS-4212 Federal Contractor Reporting" and "Filing Your VETS-4212 Report" at http://www.dol.gov/vets/vets4212.htm).
3.903 Policy. (a) (a) (b) (b) Disclosure may be made to the following entities: (c) (c) An employee who initiates or provides evidence of contractor or subcontractor misconduct in any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to waste, fraud, or abuse on a Federal contract shall be deemed to have made a disclosure.
27.202-3 Adjustment of royalties. (a) (a) If at any time the contracting officer believes that any royalties paid, or to be paid, under a contract or subcontract are inconsistent with Government rights, excessive, or otherwise improper, the contracting officer shall promptly report the facts to the office having cognizance of patent matters for the contracting activity concerned. (b) (b) In coordination with the cognizant office, the contracting officer shall promptly act to protect the Government against payment of royalties- (c) (c) In appropriate cases, the contracting officer in coordination with the cognizant office shall demand a refund pursuant to any refund of royalties clause in the contract (see 27.202-4) or negotiate for a reduction of royalties. (d) (d) For guidance in evaluating information furnished pursuant to 27.202-1, see 31.205-37. See also 31.109 regarding advance understandings on particular cost items, including royalties.
50.100 Definitions. No subsections found.
6.207 Set-asides for economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concerns or women-owned small business (WOSB) concerns eligible under the WOSB Program. (a) (a) To fulfill the statutory requirements relating to 15 U.S.C. 637(m), contracting officers may set aside solicitations for only EDWOSB concerns or WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program (see 19.1505). (b) (b) No separate justification or determination and findings is required under this part to set aside a contract action for EDWOSB concerns or WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program.
49.108-8 Assignment of rights under subcontracts. (a) (a) The termination for convenience clauses in 52.249, except the short-form clauses, obligate the prime contractor to assign to the Government, as directed by the TCO, all rights, titles, and interest under any subcontract terminated because of termination of the prime contract. The TCO shall not require the assignment unless it is in the Government’s interest. (b) (b) The termination for convenience clauses (except the short-form clauses) also provide the Government the right, in its discretion, to settle and pay any settlement proposal arising out of the termination of subcontracts. This right does not obligate the Government to settle and pay settlement proposals of subcontractors. As a general rule, the prime contractor is obligated to settle and pay these proposals. However, when the TCO determines that it is in the Government’s interest, the TCO shall, after notifying the contractor, settle the subcontractor’s proposal using the procedures for settlement of prime contracts. An example in which the Government’s interest would be served is when a subcontractor is a sole source and it appears that a delay by the prime contractor in settlement or payment of the subcontractor’s proposal will jeopardize the financial position of the subcontractor. Direct settlements with subcontractors are not encouraged.
32.405 Applying Pub.L.85-804 to advance payments under sealed bid contracts. (a) (a) Actions that designated agencies may take to facilitate the national defense without regard to other provisions of law relating to contracts, as explained in 50.101-1(a), also include making advance payments. These advance payments may be made at or after award of sealed bid contracts, as well as negotiated contracts. (b) (b) Bidders may request advance payments before or after award, even if the invitation for bids does not contain an advance payment provision. However, the contracting officer shall reject any bid requiring that advance payments be provided as a basis for acceptance. (c) (c) When advance payments are requested, the agency may-
19.202-5 Data collection and reporting requirements. (a) (a) Require each prospective contractor to represent whether it is a small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, women-owned small business, EDWOSB concern, or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program (see the provision at 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations). (b) (b) Accurately measure the extent of participation by small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns in Government acquisitions in terms of the total value of contracts placed during each fiscal year, and report data to the SBA at the end of each fiscal year (see subpart  4.6). (c) (c) When the contract includes the clause at 52.219-28, Postaward Small Business Program Rerepresentation, and the conditions in the clause for rerepresenting are met—
52.214-24 Multiple Technical Proposals. No subsections found.
47.303-11 F.o.b. inland point, country of importation. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. inland point, country of importation" means free of expense to the Government, on board the indicated type of conveyance of the carrier, delivered to the specified inland point where the consignee’s facility is located. (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor shall- (c) (c) Contract clause. The contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-39, F.o.b. Inland Point, Country of Importation, when the delivery term is f.o.b. inland point, country of importation.
Subpart 22.9 - Nondiscrimination Because of Age No subsections found.
52.216-14 [Reserved] No subsections found.
24.302 Contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at FAR 52.224-3, Privacy Training, in solicitations and contracts when, on behalf of the agency, contractor employees will- (b) (b) When an agency specifies that only its agency-provided training is acceptable, use the clause with its Alternate I.
36.102 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.232-9 Limitation on Withholding of Payments. (a) (a) Withholdings pursuant to any clause relating to wages or hours of employees; (b) (b) Withholdings not specifically provided for by this contract; (c) (c) The recovery of overpayments; and (d) (d) Any other withholding for which the Contracting Officer determines that this limitation is inappropriate.
16.301-1 Description. No subsections found.
19.507 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) [Reserved] (b) (b) [Reserved] (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside, in solicitations and contracts involving total small business set-asides. This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3), as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F). Use the clause at 52.219-6 with its Alternate I when including FPI in the competition in accordance with 19.502-7. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside, in solicitations and contracts involving partial small business set-asides. This includes part or parts of multiple-award contracts, including those described in 38.101. Use the clause at 52.219-7 with its Alternate I when including FPI in the competition in accordance with 19.502-7. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, in solicitations and contracts— (f) (f) (g) (g) (h) (h)
4.2300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
11.501 Policy. (a) (a) The contracting officer must consider the potential impact on pricing, competition, and contract administration before using a liquidated damages clause. Use liquidated damages clauses only when- (b) (b) Liquidated damages are not punitive and are not negative performance incentives (see 16.402-2). Liquidated damages are used to compensate the Government for probable damages. Therefore, the liquidated damages rate must be a reasonable forecast of just compensation for the harm that is caused by late delivery or untimely performance of the particular contract. Use a maximum amount or a maximum period for assessing liquidated damages if these limits reflect the maximum probable damage to the Government. Also, the contracting officer may use more than one liquidated damages rate when the contracting officer expects the probable damage to the Government to change over the contract period of performance. (c) (c) The contracting officer must take all reasonable steps to mitigate liquidated damages. If the contract contains a liquidated damages clause and the contracting officer is considering terminating the contract for default, the contracting officer should seek expeditiously to obtain performance by the contractor or terminate the contract and repurchase (see subpart  49.4). Prompt contracting officer action will prevent excessive loss to defaulting contractors and protect the interests of the Government. (d) (d) The head of the agency may reduce or waive the amount of liquidated damages assessed under a contract, if the Commissioner, Financial Management Service, or designee approves (see Treasury Order 145-10).
26.503 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.214-19 Contract Award-Sealed Bidding-Construction. (a) (a) The Government will evaluate bids in response to this solicitation without discussions and will award a contract to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the solicitation, will be most advantageous to the Government, considering only price and the price-related factors specified elsewhere in the solicitation. (b) (b) The Government may reject any or all bids, and waive informalities or minor irregularities in bids received. (c) (c) The Government may accept any item or combination of items, unless doing so is precluded by a restrictive limitation in the solicitation or the bid. (d) (d) The Government may reject a bid as nonresponsive if the prices bid are materially unbalanced between line items or subline items. A bid is materially unbalanced when it is based on prices significantly less than cost for some work and prices which are significantly overstated in relation to cost for other work, and if there is a reasonable doubt that the bid will result in the lowest overall cost to the Government even though it may be the low evaluated bid, or if it is so unbalanced as to be tantamount to allowing an advance payment.
30.202-7 Determinations. (a) (a) Adequacy determination. (b) (b) Compliance determination.
42.1200 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Recognition of a successor in interest to Government contracts when contractor assets are transferred; (b) (b) Recognition of a change in a contractor’s name; and (c) (c) Execution of novation agreements and change-of-name agreements by the responsible contracting officer.
12.211 Technical data. No subsections found.
52.216-29 Time-and-Materials/Labor-Hour Proposal Requirements—Other Than Commercial Acquisition With Adequate Price Competition. (a) (a) The Government contemplates award of a Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hour type of contract resulting from this solicitation. (b) (b) The offeror must specify fixed hourly rates in its offer that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit. The offeror must specify whether the fixed hourly rate for each labor category applies to labor performed by- (c) (c) The offeror must establish fixed hourly rates using-
4.1006 Modifications. (a) (a) When a new item (such as an increased quantity) is added to the procurement instrument, assign a new line item number. (b) (b) If the modification relates to existing line items, the modification shall refer to those items.
52.249-11 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.203-6 Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government. (a) (a) Except as provided in (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not enter into any agreement with an actual or prospective subcontractor, nor otherwise act in any manner, which has or may have the effect of restricting sales by such subcontractors directly to the Government of any item or process (including computer software) made or furnished by the subcontractor under this contract or under any follow-on production contract. (b) (b) The prohibition in (a) of this clause does not preclude the Contractor from asserting rights that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation. (c) (c) The Contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts under this contract which exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101 on the date of subcontract award.
52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services. (a) (a) Inspection/Acceptance. The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights- (b) (b) Assignment. The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727). However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this contract. (c) (c) Changes. Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written agreement of the parties. (d) (d) Disputes. This contract is subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 71, Contract Disputes. Failure of the parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.233-1, Disputes, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract. (e) (e) Definitions. The clause at FAR 52.202-1, Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference. (f) (f) Excusable delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such occurrence. (g) (g) Invoice. (h) (h) Patent indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and proceedings. (i) (i) Payment.- (j) (j) Risk of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise, risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government upon: (k) (k) Taxes. The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local taxes and duties. (l) (l) Termination for the Government’s convenience. The Government reserves the right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination. The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided. (m) (m) Termination for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor, or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be deemed a termination for convenience. (n) (n) Title. Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance, regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession. (o) (o) Warranty. The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described in this contract. (p) (p) Limitation of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty, the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items. (q) (q) Other compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this contract. (r) (r) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit; 40 U.S.C. chapter 37, Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards; 41 U.S.C. chapter 87, Kickbacks; 49 U.S.C. 40118, Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. chapter 21 relating to procurement integrity. (s) (s) Order of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order: (t) (t) [Reserved] (u) (u) Unauthorized Obligations. (v) (v) Incorporation by reference. The Contractor’s representations and certifications, including those completed electronically via the System for Award Management (SAM), are incorporated by reference into the contract.
19.804-2 Agency offering. (a) (a) After completing its evaluation, the contracting office shall notify the SBA of the extent of its plans to place 8(a) contracts with the SBA for specific quantities of items or work, including 8(a) contracts that are reserved in accordance with 19.503. The notification, referred to as an offering letter, shall identify the time frames within which resulting 8(a) awards must be completed in order for the agency to meet its responsibilities. The offering letter shall also contain the following information applicable to each prospective contract: (b) (b) (c) (c) All requirements for 8(a) competition, other than construction, should be forwarded to the district office servicing the geographical area in which the contracting office is located. All requirements for 8(a) construction competition should be forwarded to the district office servicing the geographical area in which all or the major portion of the construction is to be performed. All requirements, including construction, must be synopsized through the GPE. For construction, the synopsis must include the geographical area of the competition set forth in the SBA’s acceptance letter.
Subpart 31.2 - Contracts with Commercial Organizations No subsections found.
4.1903 Contract clause. No subsections found.
52.250 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.201 Contingency operation. (a) (a) Contingency operation is defined in 2.101. (b) (b) Micro-purchase threshold. The threshold increases when the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to support a contingency operation. (See 2.101 and 13.201(g).) (c) (c) Simplified acquisition threshold. The threshold increases when the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to support a contingency operation. (See 2.101.) (d) (d) SF 44, Purchase Order-Invoice-Voucher. The normal threshold for the use of the SF 44 is at or below the micro-purchase threshold. Agencies may, however, establish higher dollar limitations for purchases made to support a contingency operation. (See 13.306.) (e) (e) Simplified procedures for certain commercial products and commercial services. The threshold limits authorized for use of this authority may be increased for acquisitions to support a contingency operation. (See 13.500(c).)
9.104-7 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters, in solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.209-7, Information Regarding Responsibility Matters, in solicitations where the resultant contract value is expected to exceed $600,000. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters- (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the provision 52.209-11, Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under any Federal Law, in all solicitations. (e) (e) For agencies receiving funds subject to section 523 of Division B of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and similar provisions in subsequent appropriations acts, the contracting officer shall insert the provision 52.209-12, Certification Regarding Tax Matters, in solicitations for which the resultant contract (including options) may have a value greater than $5.5 million. Division B of the Consolidated and Continuing Further Appropriations Act, 2015 appropriates funds for the following agencies: the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the National Science Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. International Trade Commission, the Legal Services Corporation, the Marine Mammal Commission, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, and the State Justice Institute.
9.601 Definition. No subsections found.
53.233 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Part 49 - Termination of Contracts No subsections found.
22.901 Policy. (a) (a) Contractors and subcontractors shall not, in connection with employment, advancement, or discharge of employees, or the terms, conditions, or privileges of their employment, discriminate against persons because of their age except upon the basis of a bona fide occupational qualification, retirement plan, or statutory requirement. (b) (b) Contractors and subcontractors, or persons acting on their behalf, shall not specify in solicitations or advertisements for employees to work on Government contracts, a maximum age limit for employment unless the specified maximum age limit is based upon a bona fide occupational qualification, retirement plan, or statutory requirement. (c) (c) Agencies will bring this policy to the attention of contractors. The use of contract clauses is not required.
31.201-2 Determining allowability. (a) (a) A cost is allowable only when the cost complies with all of the following requirements: (b) (b) Certain cost principles in this subpart incorporate the measurement, assignment, and allocability rules of selected CAS and limit the allowability of costs to the amounts determined using the criteria in those selected standards. Only those CAS or portions of standards specifically made applicable by the cost principles in this subpart are mandatory unless the contract is CAS-covered (see part  30). Business units that are not otherwise subject to these standards under a CAS clause are subject to the selected standards only for the purpose of determining allowability of costs on Government contracts. Including the selected standards in the cost principles does not subject the business unit to any other CAS rules and regulations. The applicability of the CAS rules and regulations is determined by the CAS clause, if any, in the contract and the requirements of the standards themselves. (c) (c) When contractor accounting practices are inconsistent with this subpart  31.2, costs resulting from such inconsistent practices in excess of the amount that would have resulted from using practices consistent with this subpart are unallowable. (d) (d) A contractor is responsible for accounting for costs appropriately and for maintaining records, including supporting documentation, adequate to demonstrate that costs claimed have been incurred, are allocable to the contract, and comply with applicable cost principles in this subpart and agency supplements. The contracting officer may disallow all or part of a claimed cost that is inadequately supported.
Subpart 45.1 - General No subsections found.
35.005 Work statement. (a) (a) A clear and complete work statement concerning the area of exploration (for basic research) or the end objectives (for development and applied research) is essential. The work statement should allow contractors freedom to exercise innovation and creativity. Work statements must be individually tailored by technical and contracting personnel to attain the desired degree of flexibility for contractor creativity and the objectives of the R&D. (b) (b) In basic research the emphasis is on achieving specified objectives and knowledge rather than on achieving predetermined end results prescribed in a statement of specific performance characteristics. This emphasis applies particularly during the early or conceptual phases of the R&D effort. (c) (c) In reviewing work statements, contracting officers should ensure that language suitable for a level-of-effort approach, which requires the furnishing of technical effort and a report on the results, is not intermingled with language suitable for a task-completion approach, which often requires the development of a tangible end item designed to achieve specific performance characteristics. The wording of the work statement should also be consistent with the type and form of contract to be negotiated (see 16.207 and 16.306(d)). For example, the work statement for a cost-reimbursement contract promising the contractor’s best efforts for a fixed term would be phrased differently than a work statement for a cost-reimbursement completion contract promising the contractor’s best efforts for a defined task. Differences between work statements for fixed-price contracts and cost-reimbursement contracts should be even clearer. (d) (d) In preparing work statements, technical and contracting personnel shall consider and, as appropriate, provide in the solicitation-
13.305-4 Procedures. (a) (a) Each purchase using imprest funds or third party drafts shall be based upon an authorized purchase requisition, contracting officer verification statement, or other agency approved method of ensuring that adequate funds are available for the purchase. (b) (b) Normally, purchases should be placed orally and without soliciting competition if prices are considered reasonable. (c) (c) Since there is, for all practical purposes, simultaneous placement of the order and delivery of the items, clauses are not required for purchases using imprest funds or third party drafts. (d) (d) Forms prescribed at 13.307(e) may be used if a written order is considered necessary (e.g., if required by the supplier for discount, tax exemption, or other reasons). If a purchase order is used, endorse it "Payment to be made from Imprest Fund" (or "Payment to be made from Third Party Draft," as appropriate). (e) (e) The individual authorized to make purchases using imprest funds or third party drafts shall-
52.225-21 Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods-Buy American Statute-Construction Materials. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Domestic preference. (c) (c) Request for determination of inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act or the Buy American statute. (d) (d) Data. To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on unreasonable cost, the Contractor shall include the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey of suppliers:
8.802 Policy. (a) (a) Government printing must be done by or through the Government Publishing Office (GPO) (44 U.S.C. 501), unless- (b) (b) The head of each agency shall designate a central printing authority; that central printing authority may serve as the liaison with the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing (JCP) and the Public Printer on matters related to printing. Contracting officers shall obtain approval from their designated central printing authority before contracting in any manner, whether directly or through contracts for other supplies or services, for the items defined in 8.801 and for composition, platemaking, presswork, binding, and micrographics (when used as a substitute for printing). (c) (c)
8.405-3 Blanket purchase agreements (BPAs). (a) (a) Establishment. (b) (b) Competitive procedures for establishing a BPA. This paragraph applies to the establishment of a BPA, in addition to applicable instructions in paragraph (a). (c) (c) Ordering from BPAs. The procedures in this paragraph (c) are not required for BPAs established on or before May 16, 2011. However, ordering activities are encouraged to use the procedures for such BPAs. (d) (d) Duration of BPAs. (e) (e) Review of BPAs.
49.201 General. (a) (a) A settlement should compensate the contractor fairly for the work done and the preparations made for the terminated portions of the contract, including a reasonable allowance for profit. Fair compensation is a matter of judgment and cannot be measured exactly. In a given case, various methods may be equally appropriate for arriving at fair compensation. The use of business judgment, as distinguished from strict accounting principles, is the heart of a settlement. (b) (b) The primary objective is to negotiate a settlement by agreement. The parties may agree upon a total amount to be paid the contractor without agreeing on or segregating the particular elements of costs or profit comprising this amount. (c) (c) Cost and accounting data may provide guides, but are not rigid measures, for ascertaining fair compensation. In appropriate cases, costs may be estimated, differences compromised, and doubtful questions settled by agreement. Other types of data, criteria, or standards may furnish equally reliable guides to fair compensation. The amount of recordkeeping, reporting, and accounting related to the settlement of terminated contracts should be kept to a minimum compatible with the reasonable protection of the public interest.
52.227-11 Patent Rights-Ownership by the Contractor. (a) (a) As used in this clause- (b) (b) Contractor’s rights. (c) (c) Contractor’s obligations. (d) (d) Government’s rights- (e) (e) Contractor action to protect the Government’s interest. (f) (f) Reporting on utilization of subject inventions. The Contractor shall submit, on request, periodic reports no more frequently than annually on the utilization of a subject invention or on efforts at obtaining utilization of the subject invention that are being made by the Contractor or its licensees or assignees. The reports shall include information regarding the status of development, date of first commercial sale or use, gross royalties received by the Contractor, and other data and information as the agency may reasonably specify. The Contractor also shall provide additional reports as may be requested by the agency in connection with any march-in proceeding undertaken by the agency in accordance with paragraph (h) of this clause. The Contractor also shall mark any utilization report as confidential/proprietary to help prevent inadvertent release outside the Government. As required by 35 U.S.C. 202(c)(5), the agency will not disclose that information to persons outside the Government without the Contractor’s permission. (g) (g) Preference for United States industry. Notwithstanding any other provision of this clause, neither the Contractor nor any assignee shall grant to any person the exclusive right to use or sell any subject invention in the United States unless the person agrees that any products embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. However, in individual cases, the requirement for an agreement may be waived by the agency upon a showing by the Contractor or its assignee that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that would be likely to manufacture substantially in the United States, or that under the circumstances domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible. (h) (h) March-in rights. The Contractor acknowledges that, with respect to any subject invention in which it has retained ownership, the agency has the right to require licensing pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 203 and 210(c), and in accordance with the procedures in 37 CFR 401.6 and any supplemental regulations of the agency in effect on the date of contract award. (i) (i) Special provisions for contracts with nonprofit organizations. If the Contractor is a nonprofit organization, it shall- (j) (j) Communications. [Complete according to agency instructions.] (k) (k) Subcontracts.
52.244-3 [Reserved] No subsections found.
36.521 Specifications and drawings for construction. (a) (a) Use the clause with its AlternateI, if reproducible shop drawings are needed; or (b) (b) Use the clause with its AlternateII, if reproducible shop drawings are not needed.
14.202-8 Electronic bids. No subsections found.
52.219-24 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.228-7 Insurance-Liability to Third Persons. (a) (a) (b) (b) The Contractor agrees to submit for the Contracting Officer’s approval, to the extent and in the manner required by the Contracting Officer, any other insurance that is maintained by the Contractor in connection with the performance of this contract and for which the Contractor seeks reimbursement. (c) (c) The Contractor shall be reimbursed- (d) (d) The Government’s liability under paragraph (c) of this clause is subject to the availability of appropriated funds at the time a contingency occurs. Nothing in this contract shall be construed as implying that the Congress will, at a later date, appropriate funds sufficient to meet deficiencies. (e) (e) The Contractor shall not be reimbursed for liabilities (and expenses incidental to such liabilities)- (f) (f) The provisions of paragraph (e) of this clause shall not restrict the right of the Contractor to be reimbursed for the cost of insurance maintained by the Contractor in connection with the performance of this contract, other than insurance required in accordance with this clause; provided, that such cost is allowable under the Allowable Cost and Payment clause of this contract. (g) (g) If any suit or action is filed or any claim is made against the Contractor, the cost and expense of which may be reimbursable to the Contractor under this contract, and the risk of which is then uninsured or is insured for less than the amount claimed, the Contractor shall-
Subpart 3.1 - Safeguards No subsections found.
52.247-51 Evaluation of Export Offers. (a) (a) Port handling and ocean charges-other than DoD water terminals. Port handling and ocean charges in tariffs on file with the Bureau of Domestic Regulation, Federal Maritime Commission, or other appropriate regulatory authorities as of the date of bid opening (or the closing date specified for receipt of offers) and which will be effective for the date of the expected initial shipment will be used in the evaluation of offers. (b) (b) F.o.b. origin, transportation under Government bill of lading. (c) (c) F.o.b. port of loading with inspection and acceptance at origin. (d) (d) Ports of loading for evaluation of offers. Terminals to be used by the Government in evaluating offers are as follows: (For the information of the offerors, ocean and port handling charges are set forth if the terminal named is a DoD water terminal.) (e) (e) Ports of loading nominated by offeror. The ports of loading named in paragraph (d) of this clause are considered by the Government to be appropriate for this solicitation due to their compatibility with methods and facilities required to handle the cargo and types of vessels and to meet the required overseas delivery dates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, offerors may nominate additional ports of loading that the offeror considers to be more favorable to the Government. The Government may disregard such nominated ports if, after considering the quantity and nature of the supplies concerned, the requisite cargo handling capability, the available sailings on U.S.-flag vessels, and other pertinent transportation factors, it determines that use of the nominated ports is not compatible with the required overseas delivery date. United States Great Lakes ports of loading may be considered in the evaluation of offers only for those items scheduled in this provision for delivery during the ice-free or navigable period as proclaimed by the authorities of the St. Lawrence Seaway (normal period is between April 15 and November 30 annually). All ports named, including those nominated by offerors and determined to be eligible as provided in this provision, shall be considered in evaluating all offers received in order to establish the lowest laid down cost to the Government at the overseas port of discharge. All determinations shall be based on availability of ocean services by U.S.-flag vessels only. Additional U.S. port(s) of loading nominated by offeror, if any: (f) (f) Price basis. Offeror shall indicate whether prices are based on-
32.1003 Criteria for use. (a) (a) The contracting officer and offeror agree on the performance-based payment terms; (b) (b) The contract, individual order, or line item is a fixed-price type; (c) (c) For indefinite delivery contracts, the individual order does not provide for progress payments; and (d) (d) For other than indefinite delivery contracts, the contract does not provide for progress payments.
7.501 [Reserved] No subsections found.
16.101 General. (a) (a) A wide selection of contract types is available to the Government and contractors in order to provide needed flexibility in acquiring the large variety and volume of supplies and services required by agencies. Contract types vary according to- (b) (b) The contract types are grouped into two broad categories: fixed-price contracts (see subpart  16.2) and cost-reimbursement contracts (see subpart  16.3). The specific contract types range from firm-fixed-price, in which the contractor has full responsibility for the performance costs and resulting profit (or loss), to cost-plus-fixed-fee, in which the contractor has minimal responsibility for the performance costs and the negotiated fee (profit) is fixed. In between are the various incentive contracts (see subpart  16.4), in which the contractor’s responsibility for the performance costs and the profit or fee incentives offered are tailored to the uncertainties involved in contract performance.
52.246-21 Warranty of Construction. (a) (a) In addition to any other warranties in this contract, the Contractor warrants, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this clause, that work performed under this contract conforms to the contract requirements and is free of any defect in equipment, material, or design furnished, or workmanship performed by the Contractor or any subcontractor or supplier at any tier. (b) (b) This warranty shall continue for a period of 1 year from the date of final acceptance of the work. If the Government takes possession of any part of the work before final acceptance, this warranty shall continue for a period of 1 year from the date the Government takes possession. (c) (c) The Contractor shall remedy at the Contractor’s expense any failure to conform, or any defect. In addition, the Contractor shall remedy at the Contractor’s expense any damage to Government-owned or controlled real or personal property, when that damage is the result of- (d) (d) The Contractor shall restore any work damaged in fulfilling the terms and conditions of this clause. The Contractor’s warranty with respect to work repaired or replaced will run for 1 year from the date of repair or replacement. (e) (e) The Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor, in writing, within a reasonable time after the discovery of any failure, defect, or damage. (f) (f) If the Contractor fails to remedy any failure, defect, or damage within a reasonable time after receipt of notice, the Government shall have the right to replace, repair, or otherwise remedy the failure, defect, or damage at the Contractor’s expense. (g) (g) With respect to all warranties, express or implied, from subcontractors, manufacturers, or suppliers for work performed and materials furnished under this contract, the Contractor shall- (h) (h) In the event the Contractor’s warranty under paragraph (b) of this clause has expired, the Government may bring suit at its expense to enforce a subcontractor’s, manufacturer’s, or supplier’s warranty. (i) (i) Unless a defect is caused by the negligence of the Contractor or subcontractor or supplier at any tier, the Contractor shall not be liable for the repair of any defects of material or design furnished by the Government nor for the repair of any damage that results from any defect in Government-furnished material or design. (j) (j) This warranty shall not limit the Government’s rights under the Inspection and Acceptance clause of this contract with respect to latent defects, gross mistakes, or fraud.
16.405-1 Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts. (a) (a) Description. The cost-plus-incentive-fee contract is a cost-reimbursement contract that provides for the initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later by a formula based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. This contract type specifies a target cost, a target fee, minimum and maximum fees, and a fee adjustment formula. After contract performance, the fee payable to the contractor is determined in accordance with the formula. The formula provides, within limits, for increases in fee above target fee when total allowable costs are less than target costs, and decreases in fee below target fee when total allowable costs exceed target costs. This increase or decrease is intended to provide an incentive for the contractor to manage the contract effectively. When total allowable cost is greater than or less than the range of costs within which the fee-adjustment formula operates, the contractor is paid total allowable costs, plus the minimum or maximum fee. (b) (b) Application. (c) (c) Limitations. No cost-plus-incentive-fee contract shall be awarded unless all limitations in 16.301-3 are complied with.
47.104-3 Cost-reimbursement contracts. (a) (a) 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates may be applied to shipments other than those made by the Government if the total benefit accrues to the Government, i.e., the Government shall pay the charges or directly and completely reimburse the party that initially bears the freight charges. Therefore, 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates may be used for shipments moving on commercial bills of lading in cost reimbursement contracts under which the transportation costs are direct and allowable costs under the cost principles of part  31. (b) (b) 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates may be applied to the movement of household goods and personal effects of contractor employees who are relocated for the convenience and at the direction of the Government and whose total transportation costs are reimbursed by the Government. (c) (c) The clause at 52.247-1, Commercial Bill of Lading Notations, will ensure that the Government receives the benefit of lower 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712 rates in cost-reimbursement contracts as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. (d) (d) Contracting officers shall- (e) (e) The transportation office shall-
19.1405 Set-aside procedures. (a) (a) The contracting officer- (b) (b) A contracting officer may restrict competition to SDVOSB concerns eligible under the SDVOSB Program if there is a reasonable expectation based on market research that— (c) (c) Effective January 1, 2024, the contracting officer shall— (d) (d)  If the contracting officer receives only one acceptable offer from an SDVOSB concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program in response to a set-aside, the contracting officer should make an award to that concern. If the contracting officer receives no acceptable offers from SDVOSB concerns eligible under the SDVOSB Program, the SDVOSB set-aside shall be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid, set aside for small business concerns, as appropriate (see 19.203). (e) (e)  The procedures at 19.202-1 and, except for acquisitions not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, at 19.402 apply to this section. When the SBA intends to appeal a contracting officer’s decision to reject a recommendation of the SBA procurement center representative (or, if a procurement center representative is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) to set aside an acquisition for competition restricted to SDVOSB concerns, the SBA procurement center representative shall notify the contracting officer, in writing, of its intent within 5 working days of receiving the contracting officer’s notice of rejection. Upon receipt of notice of SBA’s intent to appeal, the contracting officer shall suspend action on the acquisition unless the head of the contracting activity makes a written determination that urgent and compelling circumstances, which significantly affect the interests of the Government, exist. Within 15 working days of SBA’s notification to the contracting officer, SBA shall file its formal appeal with the head of the contracting activity, or that agency may consider the appeal withdrawn. The head of the contracting activity shall reply to SBA within 15 working days of receiving the appeal. The decision of the head of the contracting activity shall be final.
52.219-8 Utilization of Small Business Concerns. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this contract— (b) (b) It is the policy of the United States that small business concerns, veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns, and women-owned small business concerns shall have the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in performing contracts let by any Federal agency, including contracts and subcontracts for subsystems, assemblies, components, and related services for major systems. It is further the policy of the United States that its prime contractors establish procedures to ensure the timely payment of amounts due pursuant to the terms of their subcontracts with small business concerns, veteran-owned small business concerns, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns, and women-owned small business concerns. (c) (c) (d) (d) The Contractor hereby agrees to carry out this policy in the awarding of subcontracts to the fullest extent consistent with efficient contract performance. The Contractor further agrees to cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be conducted by the United States Small Business Administration or the awarding agency of the United States as may be necessary to determine the extent of the Contractor's compliance with this clause. (e) (e)
47.101 Policies. (a) (a) For domestic shipments, the contracting officer shall authorize shipments on commercial bills of lading (CBL’s). Government bills of lading (GBL’s) may be used for international or noncontiguous domestic trade shipments or when otherwise authorized. (b) (b) The contract administration office (CAO) shall ensure that instructions to contractors result in the most efficient and economical use of transportation services and equipment. Transportation personnel will assist and provide transportation management expertise to the CAO. Specific responsibilities and details on transportation management are located in the Federal Management Regulation at 41 CFR parts 102-117 and 102-118. (For the Department of Defense, DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation.) (c) (c) The contracting officer shall obtain traffic management advice and assistance (see 47.105) in the consideration of transportation factors required for- (d) (d) (e) (e) Agencies shall not accord preferential treatment to any mode of transportation or to any particular carrier either in awarding or administering contracts for the acquisition of supplies or in awarding contracts for the acquisition of transportation. (See subparts  47.2 and 47.3 for situations in which the contracting officer is permitted to use specific modes of transportation.) (f) (f) Agencies shall place with small business concerns purchases and contracts for transportation and transportation-related services as prescribed in part  19. (g) (g) Agencies shall comply with the requirements for Government-financed air transportation (commonly referred to as the Fly America Act), the Cargo Preference Act, and related statutes as prescribed in subparts  47.4, Air Transportation by U.S.-Flag Carriers, and 47.5, Ocean Transportation by U.S.-Flag Vessels. (h) (h) When a contract specifies delivery of supplies f.o.b. origin with transportation costs to be paid by the Government, the contractor shall make shipments on bills of lading, or on other shipping documents prescribed by Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC) in the case of seavan containers, either at the direction of or furnished by the CAO or the appropriate agency transportation office.
9.408 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.219-19 [Reserved] No subsections found.
37.604 Quality assurance surveillance plans. No subsections found.
25.404 Least developed countries. No subsections found.
8.710 Quality of merchandise. (a) (a) Supplies shall be of the highest quality and equal to similar items available on the commercial market; and (b) (b) Services shall conform to good commercial practices.
32.1104 Protection of EFT information. No subsections found.
3.905-1 Remedies. (a) (a) Agency response to Inspector General report. Not later than 30 days after receiving a report pursuant to 3.904-2, the head of the agency shall— (b) (b) Complainant's right to go to court. (c) (c) Admissibility in evidence. An Inspector General determination and an agency head order denying relief under this section shall be admissible in evidence in any de novo action at law or equity brought pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 4712. (d) (d) No waiver. The rights and remedies provided for in 41 U.S.C. 4712 may not be waived by any agreement, policy, form, or condition of employment.
14.201-6 Solicitation provisions. (a) (a) The provisions prescribed in this subsection apply to preparation and submission of bids in general. See other FAR parts for provisions and clauses related to specific acquisition requirements. (b) (b) Insert in all invitations for bids the provisions at- (c) (c) Insert the following provisions in invitations for bids: (d) (d) [Reserved] (e) (e) Insert in all invitations for bids, except those for construction, the provisions at 52.214-10, Contract Award-Sealed Bidding. (f) (f) Insert in invitations for bids to which the uniform contract format applies, the provision at 52.214-12, Preparation of Bids. (g) (g) [Reserved] (h) (h) Insert the provision at 52.214-14, Place of Performance-Sealed Bidding, in invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the government. (i) (i) Insert the provision at 52.214-15, Period for Acceptance of Bids, in invitations for bids (IFB’s) that are not issued on SF 33 or SF 1447 except IFB’s- (j) (j) Insert the provision at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period, in invitations for bids, except for construction, if the contracting officer determines that a minimum acceptance period must be specified. (k) (k) [Reserved] (l) (l) Insert the provision at 52.214-18, Preparation of Bids-Construction, in invitations for bids for construction work. (m) (m) Insert the provision at 52.214-19, Contract Award-Sealed Bidding-Construction, in all invitations for bids for construction work. (n) (n) [Reserved] (o) (o) (p) (p) (q) (q) Insert the provision at 52.214-22, Evaluation of Bids for Multiple Awards, in invitations for bids if the contracting officer determines that multiple awards might be made if doing so is economically advantageous to the government. (r) (r) Insert the provision at 52.214-23, Late Submissions, Modifications, Revisions, and Withdrawals of Technical Proposals Under Two-Step Sealed Bidding, in solicitations for technical proposals in step one of two-step sealed bidding. (s) (s) Insert the provision at 52.214-24, Multiple Technical Proposals, in solicitations for technical proposals in step one of two-step sealed bidding if the contracting officer permits the submission of multiple technical proposals. (t) (t) Insert the provision at 52.214-25, Step Two of Two-Step Sealed Bidding, in invitations for bids issued under step two of two-step sealed bidding. (u) (u) [Reserved] (v) (v) Insert the provision at 52.214-31, Facsimile Bids, in solicitations if facsimile bids are authorized (see 14.202-7). (w) (w) Insert the provision at 52.214-34, Submission of Offers in the English Language, in solicitations that include any of the clauses prescribed in 25.1101 or 25.1102. It may be included in other solicitations when the contracting officer decides that it is necessary. (x) (x) Insert the provision at 52.214-35, Submission of Offers in U.S. Currency, in solicitations that include any of the clauses prescribed in 25.1101 or 25.1102, unless the contracting officer includes the clause at 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, as prescribed in 25.1103(d). It may be included in other solicitations when the contracting officer decides that it is necessary.
27.304-2 Contracts placed by or for other Government agencies. (a) (a) When a Government agency requests another Government agency to award a contract on its behalf, the request should explain any special circumstances surrounding the contract and specify the patent rights clause to be used. The clause should be selected and modified, if necessary, in accordance with the policies and procedures of this subpart. If, however, the request states that a clause of the requesting agency is required (e.g., because of statutory requirements, a deviation, or exceptional circumstances), the awarding agency shall use that clause rather than those of this subpart. (b) (b) Any action requiring an agency determination, report, or deviation involved in the use of the requesting agency’s clause is the responsibility of the requesting agency unless the agencies agree otherwise. However, the awarding agency may not alter the requesting agency’s clause without prior approval of the requesting agency. (c) (c) The requesting agency may require, and provide instructions regarding, the forwarding or handling of any invention disclosures or other reporting requirements of the specified clauses. Normally, the requesting agency is responsible for the administration of any subject inventions. This responsibility shall be established in advance of awarding any contracts.
52.247-24 Advance Notification by the Government. No subsections found.
19.1502 Applicability. No subsections found.
33.204 Policy. No subsections found.
52.225 [Reserved] No subsections found.
12.501 Applicability. (a) (a) This subpart applies to any contract or subcontract at any tier for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. (b) (b) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to authorize the waiver of any provision of law with respect to any subcontract if the prime contractor is reselling or distributing commercial products or commercial services of another contractor without adding value. This limitation is intended to preclude establishment of unusual contractual arrangements solely for the purpose of Government sales. (c) (c) For purposes of this subpart, contractors awarded subcontracts under subpart  19.8, Contracting with the Small Business Administration (the 8(a) Program), shall be considered prime contractors.
52.222-49 Service Contract Labor Standards-Place of Performance Unknown. (a) (a) This contract is subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, and the place of performance was unknown when the solicitation was issued. In addition to places or areas identified in wage determinations, if any, attached to the solicitation, wage determinations have also been requested for the following: ________ [insert places or areas]. The Contracting Officer will request wage determinations for additional places or areas of performance if asked to do so in writing by _____________ [insert time and date]. (b) (b) Offerors who intend to perform in a place or area of performance for which a wage determination has not been attached or requested may nevertheless submit bids or proposals. However, a wage determination shall be requested and incorporated in the resultant contract retroactive to the date of contract award, and there shall be no adjustment in the contract price.
17.105-2 Objectives. (a) (a) Lower costs. (b) (b) Enhancement of standardization. (c) (c) Reduction of administrative burden in the placement and administration of contracts. (d) (d) Substantial continuity of production or performance, thus avoiding annual startup costs, preproduction testing costs, make-ready expenses, and phaseout costs. (e) (e) Stabilization of contractor work forces. (f) (f) Avoidance of the need for establishing quality control techniques and procedures for a new contractor each year. (g) (g) Broadening the competitive base with opportunity for participation by firms not otherwise willing or able to compete for lesser quantities, particularly in cases involving high startup costs. (h) (h) Providing incentives to contractors to improve productivity through investment in capital facilities, equipment, and advanced technology.
3.101 Standards of conduct. No subsections found.
49.304-2 Submission of settlement proposal (fee only). No subsections found.
53.246 [Reserved] No subsections found.
25.503 Group offers. (a) (a) If the solicitation or an offer specifies that award can be made only on a group of line items or on all line items contained in the solicitation or offer, reject the offer- (b) (b) If an offer restricts award to a group of line items or to all line items contained in the offer, determine for each line item whether to apply an evaluation factor (see 25.504-4, Example 1). (c) (c) If the solicitation specifies that award will be made only on a group of line items or all line items contained in the solicitation, determine the category of end products on the basis of each line item, but determine whether to apply an evaluation factor on the basis of the group of items (see 25.504-4, Example 2). (d) (d) If no trade agreement applies to a solicitation and the solicitation specifies that award will be made only on a group of line items or all line items contained in the solicitation, determine the category of end products ( i.e., domestic or foreign) on the basis of each line item, but determine whether to apply an evaluation factor on the basis of the group of items ( see 25.504-4(c), Example 3).
4.1804 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. (a) (a) Insert the provision at 52.204-16, Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting, in all solicitations that include– (b) (b) Insert the provision at 52.204-17, Ownership or Control of Offeror, in all solicitations that include the provision at 52.204-16, Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting. (c) (c) Insert the clause at 52.204-18, Commercial and Government Entity Code Maintenance, in all solicitations and contracts when the solicitation contains the provision at 52.204-16, Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting. (d) (d) Insert the provision at 52.204-20, Predecessor of Offeror, in all solicitations that include the provision at 52.204-16, Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting.
1.700 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
Subpart 28.2 - Sureties and Other Security for Bonds No subsections found.
25.302-4 Policy. (a) (a) General. (b) (b) Implementing guidance. In accordance with 32 CFR part 159-
22.806 Inquiries. (a) (a) An inquiry from a contractor regarding status of its compliance with E.O. 11246, or rights of appeal to any of the actions in 22.809, shall be referred to the OFCCP regional office. (b) (b) Labor union inquiries regarding the revision of a collective bargaining agreement in order to comply with E.O. 11246 shall be referred to the Deputy Assistant Secretary.
52.247-19 Stopping in Transit for Partial Unloading. No subsections found.
22.404-7 Correction of wage determinations containing clerical errors. No subsections found.
27.302 Policy. (a) (a) Introduction. In accordance with chapter 18 of title 35, U.S.C. (as implemented by 37 CFR part 401), Presidential Memorandum on Government Patent Policy to the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies dated February 18, 1983, and Executive Order 12591, Facilitating Access to Science and Technology dated April 10, 1987, it is the policy and objective of the Government to- (b) (b) Contractor right to elect title. (c) (c) Government license. The Government shall have at least a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice, or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States, any subject invention throughout the world. The Government may require additional rights in order to comply with treaties or other international agreements. In such case, these rights shall be made a part of the contract (see 27.303). (d) (d) Government right to receive title. (e) (e) Utilization reports. The Government has the right to require periodic reporting on how any subject invention is being used by the contractor or its licensees or assignees. In accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202(5) and 37 CFR part 401, agencies shall not disclose such utilization reports to persons outside the Government without permission of the contractor. Contractors should mark as confidential/proprietary any utilization report to help prevent inadvertent release outside the Government. (f) (f) March-in rights. (g) (g) Preference for United States industry. In accordance with 35 U.S.C. 204, no contractor that receives title to any subject invention and no assignee of the contractor shall grant to any person the exclusive right to use or sell any subject invention in the United States unless that person agrees that any products embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. However, in individual cases, the requirement for this agreement may be waived by the agency upon a showing by the contractor or assignee that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that would be likely to manufacture substantially in the United States or that under the circumstances domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible. (h) (h) Special conditions for nonprofit organizations’ preference for small business concerns. (i) (i) Minimum rights to contractor. (j) (j) Confidentiality of inventions. Publishing information concerning an invention before a patent application is filed on a subject invention may create a bar to a valid patent. To avoid this bar, agencies may withhold information from the public that discloses any invention in which the Government owns or may own a right, title, or interest (including a nonexclusive license) (see 35 U.S.C. 205 and 37 CFR part 401). Agencies may only withhold information concerning inventions for a reasonable time in order for a patent application to be filed. Once filed in any patent office, agencies are not required to release copies of any document that is a part of a patent application for those subject inventions. (See also 27.305-4.)
5.207 Preparation and transmittal of synopses. (a) (a) Content. Each synopsis transmitted to the GPE must address the following data elements, as applicable: (b) (b) Transmittal. Transmissions to the GPE must be in accordance with the interface description available via the Internet at https://www.sam.gov. (c) (c) General format for "Description." Prepare a clear and concise description of the supplies or services that is not unnecessarily restrictive of competition and will allow a prospective offeror to make an informed business judgment as to whether a copy of the solicitation should be requested including the following, as appropriate: (d) (d) Set-asides. When the proposed acquisition provides for a total or partial small business program set-aside, or when the proposed acquisition provides for a local area set-aside (see subpart  26.2), the contracting officer shall identify the type of set-aside in the synopsis and in the solicitation. (e) (e) Codes to be used in Synopses to identify services or supplies. Contracting officers must use one of the classification codes identified at https://www.sam.gov to identify services or supplies in synopses. (f) (f) Notice of solicitation cancellation. Contracting officers may publish notices of solicitation cancellations (or indefinite suspensions) of proposed contract actions in the GPE.
52.218 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.245-4 [Reserved] No subsections found.
53.100 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
47.303-5 F.o.b. origin, with differentials. (a) (a) Explanation of delivery term."F.o.b. origin, with differentials" means- (b) (b) Contractor responsibilities. The contractor’s responsibilities are the same as those listed in 47.303-1(b). (c) (c) Contract clause. Insert in solicitations and contracts the clause at 52.247-33, F.o.b. Origin, with Differentials, when it is likely that offerors may include in f.o.b. origin offers a contingency to compensate for unfavorable routing conditions by the Government at the time of shipment.
52.232-17 Interest. (a) (a) Except as otherwise provided in this contract under a Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data clause or a Cost Accounting Standards clause, all amounts that become payable by the Contractor to the Government under this contract shall bear simple interest from the date due until paid unless paid within 30 days of becoming due. The interest rate shall be the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in 41 U.S.C. 7109, which is applicable to the period in which the amount becomes due, as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, and then at the rate applicable for each six-month period as fixed by the Secretary until the amount is paid. (b) (b) The Government may issue a demand for payment to the Contractor upon finding a debt is due under the contract. (c) (c) Final Decisions. The Contracting Officer will issue a final decision as required by 33.211 if- (d) (d) If a demand for payment was previously issued for the debt, the demand for payment included in the final decision shall identify the same due date as the original demand for payment. (e) (e) Amounts shall be due at the earliest of the following dates: (f) (f) The interest charge shall be computed for the actual number of calendar days involved beginning on the due date and ending on- (g) (g) The interest charge made under this clause may be reduced under the procedures prescribed in 32.608-2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation in effect on the date of this contract.
8.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
44.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
37.114 Special acquisition requirements. (a) (a) A sufficient number of qualified Government employees are assigned to oversee contractor activities, especially those that involve support of Government policy or decision making. During performance of service contracts, the functions being performed shall not be changed or expanded to become inherently governmental. (b) (b) A greater scrutiny and an appropriate enhanced degree of management oversight is exercised when contracting for functions that are not inherently governmental but closely support the performance of inherently governmental functions (see 7.503(c)). (c) (c) All contractor personnel attending meetings, answering Government telephones, and working in other situations where their contractor status is not obvious to third parties are required to identify themselves as such to avoid creating an impression in the minds of members of the public or Congress that they are Government officials, unless, in the judgment of the agency, no harm can come from failing to identify themselves. They must also ensure that all documents or reports produced by contractors are suitably marked as contractor products or that contractor participation is appropriately disclosed.
Subpart 19.12 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.311-2 Agency solicitation provisions and contract clauses. No subsections found.
Subpart 12.1 - Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Services No subsections found.
26.404 Contract clause. No subsections found.
4.1101 Definition. No subsections found.
9.407-1 General. (a) (a) The suspending and debarring official may, in the public interest, suspend a contractor for any of the causes in 9.407-2, using the procedures in 9.407-3. (b) (b) (c) (c) Suspension constitutes suspension of all divisions or other organizational elements of the contractor, unless the suspension decision is limited by its terms to specific divisions, organizational elements, or commodities. The suspending and debarring official may extend the suspension decision to include any affiliates of the contractor if they are- (d) (d) A contractor’s suspension shall be effective throughout the executive branch of the Government, unless the agency head or a designee (except see 26.505(e)) states in writing the compelling reasons justifying continued business dealings between that agency and the contractor. (e) (e)
15.101 Best value continuum. No subsections found.
52.202-1 Definitions. (a) (a) The	solicitation, or amended solicitation, provides a different definition; (b) (b) The contracting	parties agree to a different definition; (c) (c) The part,	subpart, or section of the FAR where the provision or clause is	prescribed provides a different meaning; (d) (d) The word	or term is defined in FAR part  31, for use	in the cost principles and procedures;	or (e) (e) The word or term defines an	acquisition-related threshold, and if the threshold is adjusted	for inflation as set forth in FAR 1.109(a), then the changed	threshold applies throughout the remaining term of the contract,	unless there is a subsequent threshold adjustment; see FAR 1.109(d).
4.501 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.213-3 Notice to Supplier. No subsections found.
22.103 Overtime. No subsections found.
Subchapter C - Contracting Methods and Contract Types No subsections found.
22.1008 Procedures for obtaining wage determinations. No subsections found.
Subpart 30.5 - Cost Accounting Standards for Educational Institutions [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.217-11 Reverse Auction—Orders. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause— (b) (b) Reverse auction. The Contracting Officer may conduct a reverse auction to award an order under this contract or blanket purchase agreement. (c) (c) Contractor agreement. When a reverse auction is conducted under this contract or blanket purchase agreement, the following applies: (d) (d) Release of information. The Government may use a reverse auction service provider to conduct the reverse auction. Any price or proposal information or source selection information received by the reverse auction service provider in relation to the reverse auction shall not be released, outside of the Government, unless otherwise required by law. However, this does not prevent the Government from revealing to all Contractors or blanket purchase agreement holders the offered price(s) in the auction, without revealing any Contractor or blanket purchase agreement holder's identity. Price or proposal information includes, but is not limited to—
3.804 Policy. No subsections found.
17.700 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Compliance with this subpart is in addition to the policies and procedures for interagency acquisitions set forth in subpart  17.5. This subpart prescribes policies and procedures specific to acquisitions of supplies and services by nondefense agencies on behalf of the Department of Defense (DoD). (b) (b) This subpart implements Pub. L. 110-181, section 801, as amended (10 U.S.C. 3201 note prec.).
8.705-3 Allocation process. (a) (a) When the direct order process has not been authorized, the ordering office shall submit a written request for allocation (requesting the designation of the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency to produce the supplies or perform the service) to the central nonprofit agency designated in the Procurement List. Ordering offices shall request allocations in sufficient time for a reply, for orders to be placed, and for the nonprofit agency to produce the supplies or provide the service within the required delivery or performance schedule. (b) (b) The ordering office’s request to the central nonprofit agency for allocation shall include the following information: (c) (c) When an allocation is received, the ordering office shall promptly issue an order to the specified AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency or to the central nonprofit agency, as instructed by the allocation. If the issuance of an order is to be delayed for more than 15 days beyond receipt of the allocation, or canceled, the ordering office shall advise the central nonprofit agency immediately. (d) (d) Ordering offices may issue orders without limitation as to dollar amount and shall record them upon issuance as obligations. Each order shall include, as a minimum, the information contained in the request for allocation. Ordering offices shall also include additional instructions necessary for performance under the order; e.g., on the handling of Government-furnished property, reports required, and notification of shipment.
52.203-12 Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Prohibition. 31 U.S.C. 1352 prohibits a recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement from using appropriated funds to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal actions. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 1352 the Contractor shall not use appropriated funds to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the award of this contractor the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of this contract. (c) (c) Exceptions. The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this clause does not apply under the following conditions: (d) (d) Disclosure. (e) (e) Penalties. (f) (f) Cost allowability. Nothing in this clause makes allowable or reasonable any costs which would otherwise be unallowable or unreasonable. Conversely, costs made specifically unallowable by the requirements in this clause will not be made allowable under any other provision. (g) (g) Subcontracts.
52.215-21 Requirements for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. (a) (a) Exceptions from certified cost or pricing data. (b) (b) Requirements for certified cost or pricing data. If the Contractor is not granted an exception from the requirement to submit certified cost or pricing data, the following applies:
6.300 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
36.213-4 Notice of award. (a) (a) Identify the invitation for bids; (b) (b) Identify the contractor’s bid; (c) (c) State the award price; (d) (d) Advise the contractor that any required payment and performance bonds must be promptly executed and returned to the contracting officer; (e) (e) Specify the date of commencement of work, or advise that a notice to proceed will be issued.
32.502 Preaward matters. No subsections found.
15.308 Source selection decision. No subsections found.
22.2107 Waiver of rights. No subsections found.
28.106-1 Bonds and bond-related forms. (a) (a) SF 24, Bid Bond (see 28.101). (b) (b) SF 25, Performance Bond (see 28.102-1 and 28.106-3(b)). (c) (c) SF 25A, Payment Bond (see 28.102-1 and 28.106-3(b)). (d) (d) SF 25B, Continuation Sheet (for SF’s  24, 25, and 25A). (e) (e) SF 28, Affidavit of Individual Surety (see 28.203). (f) (f) SF 34, Annual Bid Bond (see 28.001). (g) (g) SF 35, Annual Performance Bond (see 28.104). (h) (h) SF 273, Reinsurance Agreement for a Bonds Statute Performance Bond (see 28.202(a)(4)). (i) (i) SF 274, Reinsurance Agreement for a Bonds Statute Payment Bond (see 28.202(a)(4)). (j) (j) SF 275, Reinsurance Agreement in Favor of the United States (see 28.202(a)(4)). (k) (k) SF 1414, Consent of Surety (see 28.106-5). (l) (l) SF 1415, Consent of Surety and Increase of Penalty (see 28.106-3). (m) (m) SF 1416, Payment Bond for Other Than Construction Contracts (see 28.103-3 and 28.106-3(b)). (n) (n) SF 1418, Performance Bond for Other Than Construction Contracts (see 28.103-2 and 28.106-3(b)). (o) (o) OF 91, Release of Personal Property from Escrow (see 28.203-3).
52.246-5 Inspection of Services-Cost-Reimbursement. (a) (a) Definition."Services," as used in this clause, includes services performed, workmanship, and material furnished or used in performing services. (b) (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all services called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times during the term of the contract. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (d) (d) If any of the services performed do not conform with contract requirements, the Government may require the Contractor to perform the services again in conformity with contract requirements, for no additional fee. When the defects in services cannot be corrected by reperformance, the Government may- (e) (e) If the Contractor fails to promptly perform the services again or take the action necessary to ensure future performance in conformity with contract requirements, the Government may-
53.201 Federal acquisition system. No subsections found.
Subpart 1.7 - Determinations and Findings No subsections found.
52.247-63 Preference for U.S.-Flag Air Carriers. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) U.S. Government-financed international air transportation. 49 U.S.C. 40118, Government-financed air transportation (commonly referred to as the Fly America Act), requires that all Federal agencies and Government contractors and subcontractors use U.S.-flag air carriers for U.S. Government-financed international air transportation of personnel (and their personal effects) or property, to the extent that service by those carriers is available. It requires the General Services Administration to issue regulations that, in the absence of satisfactory proof of the necessity for foreign-flag air transportation, disallow expenditures from funds, appropriated or otherwise established for the account of the United States, for international air transportation secured aboard a foreign-flag air carrier if a U.S.-flag air carrier is available to provide such services. (c) (c) Use of U.S.-flag carriers for international air transportation. If available, the Contractor, in performing work under this contract, shall use U.S.-flag carriers for international air transportation of personnel (and their personal effects) or property. (d) (d) Statement of unavailability of U.S.-flag air carriers. Use of U.S.-flag carriers for international air transportation. In the event that the Contractor selects a carrier other than a U.S.-flag air carrier for international air transportation, the Contractor shall include a statement on vouchers involving such transportation essentially as follows: (e) (e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in each subcontract or purchase under this contract that may involve international air transportation.
1.401 Definition. (a) (a) The issuance or use of a policy, procedure, solicitation provision (see definition in 2.101), contract clause (see definition in 2.101), method, or practice of conducting acquisition actions of any kind at any stage of the acquisition process that is inconsistent with the FAR. (b) (b) The omission of any solicitation provision or contract clause when its prescription requires its use. (c) (c) The use of any solicitation provision or contract clause with modified or alternate language that is not authorized by the FAR (see definition of "modification" in 52.101(a) and definition of "alternate" in 2.101). (d) (d) The use of a solicitation provision or contract clause prescribed by the FAR on a "substantially as follows" or "substantially the same as" basis (see definitions in 2.101 and 52.101(a)), if such use is inconsistent with the intent, principle, or substance of the prescription or related coverage on the subject matter in the FAR. (e) (e) The authorization of lesser or greater limitations on the use of any solicitation provision, contract clause, policy, or procedure prescribed by the FAR. (f) (f) The issuance of policies or procedures that govern the contracting process or otherwise control contracting relationships that are not incorporated into agency acquisition regulations in accordance with 1.301(a).
10.001 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies shall— (b) (b) When conducting market research, agencies should not request potential sources to submit more than the minimum information necessary. (c) (c) If an agency contemplates consolidation or bundling, the agency— (d) (d) See 10.003 for the requirement for a prime contractor to perform market research in contracts in excess of $6 million, other than contracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services (section 826 of Pub. L. 110-181).
9.106-1 Conditions for preaward surveys. (a) (a) A preaward survey is normally required only when the information on hand or readily available to the contracting officer, including information from commercial sources, is not sufficient to make a determination regarding responsibility. In addition, if the contemplated contract will have a fixed price at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or will involve the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services (see part  12), the contracting officer should not request a preaward survey unless circumstances justify its cost. (b) (b) When a cognizant contract administration office becomes aware of a prospective award to a contractor about which unfavorable information exists and no preaward survey has been requested, it shall promptly obtain and transmit details to the contracting officer. (c) (c) Before beginning a preaward survey, the surveying activity shall ascertain whether the prospective contractor is debarred, suspended, or ineligible (see subpart  9.4). If the prospective contractor is debarred, suspended, or ineligible, the surveying activity shall advise the contracting officer promptly and not proceed with the preaward survey unless specifically requested to do so by the contracting officer.
9.407 Suspension. No subsections found.
31.205-35 Relocation costs. (a) (a) Relocation costs are costs incident to the permanent change of assigned work location (for a period of 12 months or more) of an existing employee or upon recruitment of a new employee. The following types of relocation costs are allowable as noted, subject to the limitations in paragraphs (b) and (f) of this subsection: (b) (b) The costs described in paragraph (a) of this subsection must also meet the following criteria to be considered allowable: (c) (c) The following types of costs are unallowable: (d) (d) If relocation costs for an employee have been allowed either as an allocable indirect or direct cost, and the employee resigns within 12 months for reasons within the employee’s control, the contractor shall refund or credit the relocation costs to the Government. (e) (e) Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the costs of family movements and of personnel movements of a special or mass nature are allowable. The cost, however, should be assigned on the basis of work (contracts) or time period benefited. (f) (f) Relocation costs (both outgoing and return) of employees who are hired for performance on specific contracts or long-term field projects are allowable if-
52.219-16 Liquidated Damages-Subcontracting Plan. (a) (a) "Failure to make a good faith effort to comply with the subcontracting plan," as used in this clause, means a willful or intentional failure to perform in accordance with the requirements of the subcontracting plan approved under the clause in this contract entitled "Small Business Subcontracting Plan," or willful or intentional action to frustrate the plan. (b) (b) Performance shall be measured by applying the percentage goals to the total actual subcontracting dollars or, if a commercial plan is involved, to the pro rata share of actual subcontracting dollars attributable to Government contracts covered by the commercial plan. If, at contract completion or, in the case of a commercial plan, at the close of the fiscal year for which the plan is applicable, the Contractor has failed to meet its subcontracting goals and the Contracting Officer decides in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause that the Contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting plan (see 19.705-7), established in accordance with the clause in this contract entitled "Small Business Subcontracting Plan," the Contractor shall pay the Government liquidated damages in an amount stated. The amount of probable damages attributable to the Contractor’s failure to comply shall be an amount equal to the actual dollar amount by which the Contractor failed to achieve each subcontract goal. (c) (c) Before the Contracting Officer makes a final decision that the Contractor has failed to make such good faith effort, the Contracting Officer shall give the Contractor written notice specifying the failure and permitting the Contractor to demonstrate what good faith efforts have been made and to discuss the matter. Failure to respond to the notice may be taken as an admission that no valid explanation exists. If, after consideration of all the pertinent data, the Contracting Officer finds that the Contractor failed to make a good faith effort to comply with the subcontracting plan, the Contracting Officer shall issue a final decision to that effect and require that the Contractor pay the Government liquidated damages as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause. (d) (d) With respect to commercial plans, the Contracting Officer who approved the plan will perform the functions of the Contracting Officer under this clause on behalf of all agencies with contracts covered by the commercial plan. (e) (e) The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the clause in this contract entitled, Disputes, from any final decision of the Contracting Officer. (f) (f) Liquidated damages shall be in addition to any other remedies that the Government may have.
52.208-5 Condition of Leased Vehicles. (a) (a) By contract or otherwise, correct the defect or arrange for the lease of a similar vehicle and shall charge or set off against the Contractor any excess costs occasioned thereby; or (b) (b) Terminate the contract under the Default clause of this contract.
36.513 Accident prevention. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.236-13, Accident Prevention, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction contract or a fixed-price dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. The contracting officer may insert the clause in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction or a fixed-price contract for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to be at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. If the contract will involve work of a long duration or hazardous nature, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its AlternateI. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause or the clause with its AlternateI in solicitations and contracts when a contract for services to be performed at Government facilities (see 48 CFR Part 37) is contemplated, and technical representatives advise that special precautions are appropriate. (c) (c) The contracting officer should inform the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), or other cognizant Federal, State, or local officials, of instances where the contractor has been notified to take immediate action to correct serious or imminent dangers.
52.219-7 Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside. (a) (a) Definition. Small business concern, as used in this clause— (b) (b) Applicability. This clause applies only to contracts that have been partially set aside for small business concerns. (c) (c) General. (d) (d) The Offeror shall— (e) (e) Partial set-asides of multiple-award contracts.
52.227-23 Rights to Proposal Data (Technical). No subsections found.
52.225-13 Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases. (a) (a) Except as authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in the Department of the Treasury, the Contractor shall not acquire, for use in the performance of this contract, any supplies or services if any proclamation, Executive order, or statute administered by OFAC, or if OFAC’s implementing regulations at 31 CFR ChapterV, would prohibit such a transaction by a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. (b) (b) Except as authorized by OFAC, most transactions involving Cuba, Iran, and Sudan are prohibited, as are most imports from Burma or North Korea, into the United States or its outlying areas. Lists of entities and individuals subject to economic sanctions are included in OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-sanctions/specially-designated-nationals-and-blocked-persons-list-sdn-human-readable-lists. More information about these restrictions, as well as updates, is available in the OFAC’s regulations at 31 CFR ChapterV and/or on OFAC’s website at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/office-of-foreign-assets-control-sanctions-programs-and-information. (c) (c) The Contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts.
17.106-3 Special procedures applicable to DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. (a) (a) Participation by subcontractors, suppliers, and vendors. In order to broaden the defense industrial base, to the maximum extent practicable- (b) (b) Protection of existing authority. To the extent practicable, multi-year contracting shall not be carried out in a manner to preclude or curtail the existing ability of the Department or agency to provide for termination of a prime contract, the performance of which is deficient with respect to cost, quality, or schedule. (c) (c) Cancellation or termination for insufficient funding. In the event funds are not made available for the continuation of a multi-year contract awarded using the procedures in this section, the contract shall be canceled or terminated. (d) (d) Contracts awarded under the multi-year procedure shall be firm-fixed-price, fixed-price with economic price adjustment, or fixed-price incentive. (e) (e) Recurring costs in cancellation ceiling. The inclusion of recurring costs in cancellation ceilings is an exception to normal contract financing arrangements and requires approval by the agency head. (f) (f) Annual and multi-year proposals. Obtaining both annual and multi-year offers provides reduced lead time for making an annual award in the event that the multi-year award is not in the Government’s interest. Obtaining both also provides a basis for the computation of savings and other benefits. However, the preparation and evaluation of dual offers may increase administrative costs and workload for both offerors and the Government, especially for large or complex acquisitions. The head of a contracting activity may authorize the use of a solicitation requesting only multi-year prices, provided it is found that such a solicitation is in the Government’s interest, and that dual proposals are not necessary to meet the objectives in 17.105-2. (g) (g) Level unit prices. Multi-year contract procedures provide for the amortization of certain costs over the entire contract quantity resulting in identical (level) unit prices (except when the economic price adjustment terms apply) for all items or services under the multi-year contract. If level unit pricing is not in the Government’s interest, the head of a contracting activity may approve the use of variable unit prices, provided that for competitive proposals there is a valid method of evaluation.
42.803 Disallowing costs after incurrence. (a) (a) Contracting officer receipt of vouchers. When contracting officers receive vouchers directly from the contractor and, with or without auditor assistance, approve or disapprove them, the process shall be conducted in accordance with the normal procedures of the individual agency. (b) (b) Auditor receipt of vouchers.
3.503-1 Policy. No subsections found.
Part 46 - Quality Assurance No subsections found.
52.222-33 Notice of Requirement for Project Labor Agreement. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision, the following terms are defined in clause 52.222-34, Project Labor Agreement, of this solicitation “construction,” “labor organization,” “large-scale construction project,” and “project labor agreement.” (b) (b) Offerors shall— (c) (c) The project labor agreement reached pursuant to this provision shall- (d) (d) Any project labor agreement reached pursuant to this provision does not change the terms of the resulting contract or provide for any price adjustment by the Government. (e) (e) The Offeror shall submit to the Contracting Officer a copy of the project labor agreement with its offer.
52.246-13 Inspection-Dismantling, Demolition, or Removal of Improvements. (a) (a) Unless otherwise designated by the specifications, all workmanship performed under the contract is subject to Government inspection at all times and places where dismantling or demolition work is being performed. The Contractor shall furnish promptly, and at no increase in contract price, all reasonable facilities, labor, and materials necessary for safe and convenient inspection by the Government. The Government shall perform inspections in a manner that will not unduly delay the work. (b) (b) The Contractor is responsible for damage to property caused by defective workmanship. The Contractor shall promptly segregate and remove from the premises any unsatisfactory facilities, materials, and equipment used in contract performance, and promptly replace them with satisfactory items. If the Contractor fails to proceed at once in a workmanlike manner with performance of the work or with the correction of defective workmanship, the Government may-
25.602 Policy. No subsections found.
37.402 Contracting officer responsibilities. No subsections found.
44.202-1 Responsibilities. (a) (a) The cognizant administrative contracting officer (ACO) is responsible for consent to subcontracts, except when the contracting officer retains the contract for administration or withholds the consent responsibility from delegation to the ACO. In such cases, the contract administration office should assist the contracting office in its evaluation as requested. (b) (b) The contracting officer responsible for consent shall review the contractor’s notification and supporting data to ensure that the proposed subcontract is appropriate for the risks involved and consistent with current policy and sound business judgment. (c) (c) Designation of specific subcontractors during contract negotiations does not in itself satisfy the requirements for advance notification or consent pursuant to the clause at 52.244-2. However, if, in the opinion of the contracting officer, the advance notification or consent requirements were satisfied for certain subcontracts evaluated during negotiations, the contracting officer shall identify those subcontracts in paragraph (j) of the clause at 52.244-2.
16.307 Contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.216-8, Fixed Fee, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract (other than a construction contract) is contemplated. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.216-9, Fixed-Fee-Construction, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-plus-fixed-fee construction contract is contemplated. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.216-10, Incentive Fee, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-plus-incentive-fee contract is contemplated. (e) (e) (f) (f) (g) (g) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.216-15, Predetermined Indirect Cost Rates, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-reimbursement research and development contract with an educational institution (see 42.705-3(b)) is contemplated and predetermined indirect cost rates are to be used.
52.228-8 Liability and Insurance-Leased Motor Vehicles. (a) (a) The Government shall be responsible for loss of or damage to- (b) (b) The Contractor shall be liable for, and shall indemnify and hold harmless the Government against, all actions or claims for loss of or damage to property or the injury or death of persons, resulting from the fault, negligence, or wrongful act or omission of the Contractor, its agents, or employees. (c) (c) The Contractor shall provide and maintain insurance covering its liabilities under paragraph (b) of this clause, in amounts of at least $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence for death or bodily injury and $20,000 per occurrence for property damage or loss. (d) (d) Before commencing work under this contract, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing that the required insurance has been obtained. The policies evidencing required insurance shall contain an endorsement to the effect that any cancellation or any material change adversely affecting the interests of the Government shall not be effective (1) for such period as the laws of the State in which this contract is to be performed prescribe or (2) until 30 days after written notice to the Contracting Officer, whichever period is longer. The policies shall exclude any claim by the insurer for subrogation against the Government by reason of any payment under the policies. (e) (e) The contract price shall not include any costs for insurance or contingency to cover losses, damage, injury, or death for which the Government is responsible under paragraph (a) of this clause.
14.202-7 Facsimile bids. (a) (a) Unless prohibited or otherwise restricted by agency procedures, contracting officers may authorize facsimile bids (see 14.201-6(v)). In determining whether or not to authorize facsimile bids, the contracting officer shall consider factors such as- (b) (b) If facsimile bids are authorized, contracting officers may, after the date set for bid opening, request the apparently successful offeror to provide the complete, original signed bid.
29.303 Application of State and local taxes to Government contractors and subcontractors. (a) (a) Prime contractors and subcontractors shall not normally be designated as agents of the Government for the purpose of claiming immunity from State or local sales or use taxes. Before any activity contends that a contractor is an agent of the Government, the matter shall be referred to the agency head for review. The referral shall include all pertinent data on which the contention is based, together with a thorough analysis of all relevant legal precedents. (b) (b) When purchases are not made by the Government itself, but by a prime contractor or by a subcontractor under a prime contract, the right to an exemption of the transaction from a sales or use tax may not rest on the Government’s immunity from direct taxation by States and localities. It may rest instead on provisions of the particular State or local law involved, or, in some cases, the transaction may not in fact be expressly exempt from the tax. The Government’s interest shall be protected by using the procedures in 29.101. (c) (c) Frequently, property (including property acquired under the progress payments clause of fixed-price contracts or the Government property clause of cost-reimbursement contracts) owned by the Government is in the possession of a contractor or subcontractor. Situations may arise in which States or localities assert the right to tax Government property directly or to tax the contractor’s or subcontractor’s possession of, interest in, or use of that property. In such cases, the contracting officer shall seek review and advice from the agency-designated counsel on the appropriate course of action.
33.105 Protest at the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. No subsections found.
46.401 General. (a) (a) Government contract quality assurance shall be performed at such times (including any stage of manufacture or performance of services) and places (including subcontractors’ plants) as may be necessary to determine that the supplies or services conform to contract requirements. Quality assurance surveillance plans should be prepared in conjunction with the preparation of the statement of work. The plans should specify- (b) (b) Each contract shall designate the place or places where the Government reserves the right to perform quality assurance. (c) (c) If the contract provides for performance of Government quality assurance at source, the place or places of performance may not be changed without the authorization of the contracting officer. (d) (d) If a contract provides for delivery and acceptance at destination and the Government inspects the supplies at a place other than destination, the supplies shall not ordinarily be reinspected at destination, but should be examined for quantity, damage in transit, and possible substitution or fraud. (e) (e) Government inspection shall be performed by or under the direction or supervision of Government personnel. (f) (f) Government inspection shall be documented on an inspection or receiving report form or commercial shipping document/packing list, under agency procedures (see subpart  46.6). (g) (g) Agencies may prescribe the use of inspection approval or disapproval stamps to identify and control supplies and material that have been inspected for conformance with contract quality requirements.
52.216-26 Payments of Allowable Costs Before Definitization. (a) (a) Reimbursement rate. Pending the placing of the definitive contract referred to in this letter contract, the Government will promptly reimburse the Contractor for all allowable costs under this contract at the following rates: (b) (b) Limitation of reimbursement. To determine the amounts payable to the Contractor under this letter contract, the Contracting Officer shall determine allowable costs in accordance with the applicable cost principles in part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). The total reimbursement made under this paragraph shall not exceed 85 percent of the maximum amount of the Government’s liability, as stated in this contract. (c) (c) Invoicing. Payments shall be made promptly to the Contractor when requested as work progresses, but (except for small business concerns) not more often than every 2 weeks, in amounts approved by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may submit to an authorized representative of the Contracting Officer, in such form and reasonable detail as the representative may require, an invoice or voucher supported by a statement of the claimed allowable cost incurred by the Contractor in the performance of this contract. (d) (d) Allowable costs. For the purpose of determining allowable costs, the term "costs" includes- (e) (e) Small business concerns. A small business concern may receive more frequent payments than every 2 weeks. (f) (f) Audit. At any time before final payment, the Contracting Officer may have the Contractor’s invoices or vouchers and statements of costs audited. Any payment may be-
13.106 Soliciting competition, evaluation of quotations or offers, award and documentation. No subsections found.
30.202-8 Subcontractor Disclosure Statements. (a) (a) When the Government requires determinations of adequacy of subcontractor disclosure statements, the CFAO for the subcontractor shall provide this determination to the CFAO for the contractor or next higher-tier subcontractor. The higher-tier CFAO shall not change the determination of the lower-tier CFAO. (b) (b) Any determination that it is impractical to secure a subcontractor’s Disclosure Statement must be made in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.202-2.
52.214-16 Minimum Bid Acceptance Period. (a) (a) "Acceptance period," as used in this provision, means the number of calendar days available to the Government for awarding a contract from the date specified in this solicitation for receipt of bids. (b) (b) This provision supersedes any language pertaining to the acceptance period that may appear elsewhere in this solicitation. (c) (c) The Government requires a minimum acceptance period of __________ calendar days [the Contracting Officer shall insert the number of days]. (d) (d) In the space provided immediately below, bidders may specify a longer acceptance period than the Government’s minimum requirement. (e) (e) A bid allowing less than the Government’s minimum acceptance period will be rejected. (f) (f) The bidder agrees to execute all that it has undertaken to do, in compliance with its bid, if that bid is accepted in writing within-
24.104 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The clause at 52.224-1, Privacy Act Notification. (b) (b) The clause at 52.224-2, Privacy Act.
52.228-13 Alternative Payment Protections. (a) (a) The Contractor shall submit one of the following payment protections: (b) (b) The amount of the payment protection shall be 100 percent of the contract price. (c) (c) The submission of the payment protection is required within _________ days of contract award. (d) (d) The payment protection shall provide protection for the full contract performance period plus a one-year period. (e) (e) Except for escrow agreements and payment bonds, which provide their own protection procedures, the Contracting Officer is authorized to access funds under the payment protection when it has been alleged in writing by a supplier of labor or material that a nonpayment has occurred, and to withhold such funds pending resolution by administrative or judicial proceedings or mutual agreement of the parties. (f) (f) When a tripartite escrow agreement is used, the Contractor shall utilize only suppliers of labor and material that signed the escrow agreement.
6.001 Applicability. (a) (a) Contracts awarded using the simplified acquisition procedures of part  13 (but see 13.501 for requirements pertaining to sole source acquisitions of commercial products or commercial services, under subpart  13.5); (b) (b) Contracts awarded using contracting procedures (other than those addressed in this part) that are expressly authorized by statute; (c) (c) Contract modifications, that are within the scope of the contract, including the exercise of priced options that were evaluated as part of the original competition (see 17.207(f)); (d) (d) Orders placed under requirements contracts or definite-quantity contracts; (e) (e) Orders placed under indefinite-quantity contracts that were entered into pursuant to this part when- (f) (f) Orders placed against task order and delivery order contracts entered into pursuant to subpart  16.5.
17.401 General. (a) (a) Reduce delivery time. (b) (b) Achieve geographic dispersion of suppliers. (c) (c) Maximize the use of scarce tooling or special equipment. (d) (d) Achieve economies in production. (e) (e) Ensure uniformity and reliability in equipment, compatibility or standardization of components, and interchangeability of parts. (f) (f) Eliminate problems in the use of proprietary data that cannot be resolved by more satisfactory solutions. (g) (g) Facilitate the transition from development to production and to subsequent competitive acquisition of end items or major components.
52.203-9 [Reserved] No subsections found.
32.603 Debt determination. (a) (a) If the contracting officer has any indication that a contractor owes money to the Government under a contract, the contracting officer shall determine promptly whether an actual debt is due and the amount. Any unnecessary delay may contribute to- (b) (b) The amount of indebtedness determined by the contracting officer shall be an amount that-
45.604-3 Proceeds from sales of surplus property. No subsections found.
19.813 Protesting an 8(a) participant's eligibility or size status. (a) (a) The eligibility of an 8(a) participant for a sole source or competitive 8(a) requirement may not be challenged by another 8(a) participant or any other party, either to SBA or any administrative forum as part of a bid or other contract protest (see 13 CFR 124.517). (b) (b) The size status of an 8(a) participant nominated for an 8(a) sole source contract may not be protested by another 8(a) participant or any other party. (c) (c) The size status of the apparent successful offeror for competitive 8(a) awards may be protested. The filing of a size status protest is limited to- (d) (d) Protests of competitive 8(a) awards shall follow the procedures at 19.302. For additional information, refer to 13 CFR 121.1001.
Subpart 22.6 - Contracts for Materials,	Supplies, Articles, and Equipment No subsections found.
4.1200 Scope. (a) (a) Eliminate the administrative burden for contractors of submitting the same information to various contracting offices; (b) (b) Establish a common source for this information to procurement offices across the Government; and (c) (c) Incorporate by reference the contractor’s representations and certifications in the awarded contract.
4.600 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
14.408-4 Economic price adjustment. (a) (a) Bidder proposes economic price adjustment. (b) (b) Government proposes economic price adjustment.
49.108-7 Government assistance in settling subcontracts. No subsections found.
15.200 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Exchanging information with industry prior to receipt of proposals; (b) (b) Preparing and issuing requests for proposals (RFPs) and requests for information (RFIs); and (c) (c) Receiving proposals and information.
22.202 Contract clause. (a) (a) The	contract will be subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 65, (see subpart  22.6), which	contains a separate prohibition against the employment of convict	labor; (b) (b) The supplies	or services are to be purchased from Federal Prison Industries,	Inc. (see subpart  8.6); or (c) (c) The acquisition	involves the purchase, from any State prison, of finished supplies	that may be secured in the open market or from existing stocks,	as distinguished from supplies requiring special fabrication.
6.208 Set-asides for local firms during a major disaster or emergency. (a) (a) To fulfill the statutory requirements relating to 42 U.S.C. 5150, contracting officers may set aside solicitations to allow only offerors residing or doing business primarily in the area affected by such major disaster or emergency to compete (see subpart  26.2). (b) (b) No separate justification or determination and findings is required under this part to set aside a contract action. The set-aside area specified by the contracting officer shall be a geographic area within the area identified in a Presidential declaration(s) of major disaster or emergency and any additional geographic areas identified by the Department of Homeland Security.
47.207-2 Duration of contract and time of performance. (a) (a) Establish a specific expiration date (month, day, and year) for the contract or state the length of time that the contract will remain in effect; e.g.,6 months commencing from the date of award; and (b) (b) Include the following items as appropriate:
22.1309 Actions because of noncompliance. (a) (a) Withholding progress payments; (b) (b) Termination or suspension of the contract; or (c) (c) Debarment of the contractor.
19.701 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.232-6 Payment under Communication Service Contracts with Common Carriers. No subsections found.
52.223-4 Recovered Material Certification. No subsections found.
Subpart 8.2 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
7.300 [Reserved] No subsections found.
36.609-2 Redesign responsibility for design errors or deficiencies. (a) (a) Under architect-engineer contracts, contractors shall be required to make necessary corrections at no cost to the Government when the designs, drawings, specifications, or other items or services furnished contain any errors, deficiencies, or inadequacies. If, in a given situation, the Government does not require a firm to correct such errors, the contracting officer shall include a written statement of the reasons for that decision in the contract file. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.236-23, Responsibility of the Architect-Engineer Contractor, in fixed-price architect-engineer contracts.
Subpart 42.14 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
25.205 Postaward determinations. (a) (a) If a contractor requests a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy American statute after contract award, the contractor must explain why it could not request the determination before contract award or why the need for such determination otherwise was not reasonably foreseeable. If the contracting officer concludes that the contractor should have made the request before contract award, the contracting officer may deny the request. (b) (b) The contracting officer must base evaluation of any request for a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy American statute made after contract award on information required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of the applicable clause at 52.225-9 or 52.225-11 and/or other readily available information. (c) (c) If a determination, under 25.202(a), is made after contract award that an exception to the Buy American statute applies, the contracting officer must negotiate adequate consideration and modify the contract to allow use of the foreign construction material. When the basis for the exception is the unreasonable price of a domestic construction material, adequate consideration is at least the differential established in 25.202(a) or in accordance with agency procedures.
12.207 Contract type. (a) (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, agencies shall use firm-fixed-price contracts or fixed-price contracts with economic price adjustment for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services. (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (d) The contract types authorized by this subpart may be used in conjunction with an award fee and performance or delivery incentives when the award fee or incentive is based solely on factors other than cost (see 16.202-1 and 16.203-1). (e) (e) Use of any contract type other than those authorized by this subpart to acquire commercial products or commercial services is prohibited.
49.303-4 Adjustment of indirect costs. (a) (a) If the contract contains the clause at 52.216-7, Allowable Cost and Payment, and it appears that adjustment of indirect costs will unduly delay final settlement, the TCO, after obtaining information from the appropriate audit agency, may agree with the contractor to- (b) (b) When an amount of indirect cost is negotiated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the contractor shall eliminate the indirect cost and the related direct costs on which it was based from the total pool and base used to compute indirect costs for other contracts performed during the applicable accounting period.
Part 2 - Definitions of Words and Terms No subsections found.
22.403-1 Construction Wage Rate Requirements statute. No subsections found.
27.404 Basic rights in data clause. No subsections found.
13.303-5 Purchases under BPAs. (a) (a) Use a BPA only for purchases that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation. (b) (b) Individual purchases shall not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. However, agency regulations may establish a higher threshold consistent with the following: (c) (c) The existence of a BPA does not justify purchasing from only one source or avoiding small business set-asides. The requirements of 13.003(b) and subpart  19.5 also apply to each order. (d) (d) If, for a particular purchase greater than the micro-purchase threshold, there is an insufficient number of BPAs to ensure maximum practicable competition, the contracting officer shall- (e) (e) Limit documentation of purchases to essential information and forms as follows:
Subpart 52.2 - Text of Provisions and Clauses No subsections found.
9.000 Scope of part. No subsections found.
32.908 Contract clauses. (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.232-26, Prompt Payment for Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts, in solicitations and contracts that contain the clause at 52.232-10, Payments Under Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts. (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.232-27, Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts, in all solicitations and contracts for construction (see part  36). (c) (c) Insert the clause at 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, in all other solicitations and contracts, except when the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, applies, or when payment terms and late payment penalties are established by other governmental authority (e.g., tariffs).
45.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
47.304-3 Shipments from CONUS for overseas delivery. (a) (a) When Government acquisitions involve shipments from CONUS to overseas destinations, delivery f.o.b. origin may afford not only the economies of lower freight rates available to the Government within CONUS, but also flexibility for selection of- (b) (b) (c) (c) Export cargo involves considerations of operational and cost factors from the point of origin within CONUS to the overseas port destination. The lowest cost of shipping can be determined only by evaluating and comparing the various prospective landed costs (including inland, terminal, and ocean costs). Also, agencies may have export licensing privileges for shipments to foreign destinations. The contracting officer shall obtain advice from the transportation officer to ensure full use of these privileges.
22.1310 Solicitation provision and contract clauses. (a) (a) (b) (b) Insert the clause at 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans, in solicitations and contracts containing the clause at 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans. (c) (c) Insert the provision at 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements, in solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
31.303 Requirements. (a) (a) Contracts that refer to this subpart  31.3 for determining allowable costs under contracts with educational institutions (defined as institutions of higher education in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, and 20 U.S.C. 1001) shall be deemed to refer to, and shall have the allowability of costs determined by the contracting officer in accordance with, the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and appendix III, in effect on the date of the contract. (b) (b) Agencies are not expected to place additional restrictions on individual items of cost.
23.103 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies shall procure sustainable products and services (as defined in 2.101) to the maximum extent practicable. (b) (b)  When procuring sustainable products and services, agencies shall— (c) (c)  Regarding products under contract actions for services or construction, the contractor is required to provide products that meet the definition of sustainable products and services at 2.101, if the products are—
14.101 Elements of sealed bidding. (a) (a) Preparation of invitations for bids. Invitations must describe the requirements of the Government clearly, accurately, and completely. Unnecessarily restrictive specifications or requirements that might unduly limit the number of bidders are prohibited. The invitation includes all documents (whether attached or incorporated by reference) furnished prospective bidders for the purpose of bidding. (b) (b) Publicizing the invitation for bids. Invitations must be publicized through distribution to prospective bidders, posting in public places, and such other means as may be appropriate. Publicizing must occur a sufficient time before public opening of bids to enable prospective bidders to prepare and submit bids. (c) (c) Submission of bids. Bidders must submit sealed bids to be opened at the time and place stated in the solicitation for the public opening of bids. (d) (d) Evaluation of bids. Bids shall be evaluated without discussions. (e) (e) Contract award. After bids are publicly opened, an award will be made with reasonable promptness to that responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the invitation for bids, will be most advantageous to the Government, considering only price and the price-related factors included in the invitation.
5.501 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.214-32 [Reserved] No subsections found.
52.242-2 Production Progress Reports. (a) (a) The Contractor shall prepare and submit to the Contracting Officer the production progress reports specified in the contract Schedule. (b) (b) During any delay in furnishing a production progress report required under this contract, the Contracting Officer may withhold from payment an amount not exceeding $25,000 or 5 percent of the amount of this contract, whichever is less.
9.507-1 Solicitation provisions. (a) (a) Invites offerors’ attention to this subpart; (b) (b) States the nature of the potential conflict as seen by the contracting officer; (c) (c) States the nature of the proposed restraint upon future contractor activities; and (d) (d) Depending on the nature of the acquisition, states whether or not the terms of any proposed clause and the application of this subpart to the contract are subject to negotiation.
34.102 Policy. No subsections found.
26.302 General policy. No subsections found.
52.227-3 Patent Indemnity. (a) (a) The	Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, agents,	and employees against liability, including costs, for infringement	of any United States patent (except a patent issued upon an application	that is now or may hereafter be withheld from issue pursuant to	a Secrecy Order under 35 U.S.C. 181) arising	out of the manufacture or delivery of supplies, the performance	of services, or the construction, alteration, modification, or repair	of real property (hereinafter referred to as "construction work")	under this contract, or out of the use or disposal by or for the	account of the Government of such supplies or construction work. (b) (b) This indemnity	shall not apply unless the Contractor shall have been informed as	soon as practicable by the Government of the suit or action alleging	such infringement and shall have been given such opportunity as	is afforded by applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate	in its defense. Further, this indemnity shall not apply to—
19.306 Protesting a firm’s status as a HUBZone small business concern. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this section- (b) (b) (c) (c) Protests relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures of 19.302. An interested party seeking to protest both the small business size and HUBZone status of an apparent successful offeror shall file two separate protests. Protests relating to small business size status for the acquisition and the HUBZone eligibility requirements will be processed concurrently by SBA. (d) (d) (e) (e) Submission of a protest. (f) (f) The contracting officer shall forward all protests with a referral letter to the Director of SBA's Office of the HUBZone Program, by email to hzprotests@sba.gov. The referral letter shall include the following— (g) (g) SBA will notify the protester and the contracting officer of the date SBA received the protest. (h) (h) Before SBA decision. (i) (i) After SBA decision. The SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested concern of the SBA determination. The determination is effective immediately and is final unless overturned on appeal by SBA’s Associate Administrator, Office of Government Contracting and Business Development (AA/GC&BD). (j) (j) Appeals of HUBZone status determinations. The protested HUBZone small business concern, the protester, or the contracting officer may file appeals of protest determinations with SBA’s AA/GC&BD. The AA/GC&BD must receive the appeal no later than 5 business days after the date of receipt of the protest determination. SBA will dismiss any untimely appeal. (k) (k) The appeal must be in writing. The appeal must identify the protest determination being appealed and must set forth a full and specific statement as to why the decision is erroneous or what significant fact the HUBZone Program Director failed to consider. (l) (l) (m) (m) The AA/GC&BD will make its decision within 5 business days of the receipt of the appeal, if practicable, and will base its decision only on the information and documentation in the protest record as supplemented by the appeal. SBA will provide a copy of the decision to the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested HUBZone small business concern. The SBA decision, if received before award, will apply to the pending acquisition. The AA/GC&BD's decision is the final decision.
8.706 Purchase exceptions. (a) (a) Ordering offices may acquire supplies or services on the Procurement List from commercial sources only if the acquisition is specifically authorized in a purchase exception granted by the designated central nonprofit agency. (b) (b) The central nonprofit agency shall promptly grant purchase exceptions when- (c) (c) The central nonprofit agency granting the exception shall specify the quantity and delivery or performance period covered by the exception. (d) (d) When a purchase exception is granted, the contracting officer shall- (e) (e) The Committee may also grant a purchase exception, under any circumstances it considers appropriate.
52.236-1 Performance of Work by the Contractor. No subsections found.
42.705-1 Contracting officer determination procedure. (a) (a) Applicability and responsibility. Contracting officer determination shall be used for the following, with the indicated cognizant contracting officer (or cognizant Federal agency official) responsible for establishing the final indirect cost rates: (b) (b) Procedures.
15.406-3 Documenting the negotiation. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall document in the contract file the principal elements of the negotiated agreement. The documentation (e.g., price negotiation memorandum (PNM)) shall include the following: (b) (b) Whenever field pricing assistance has been obtained, the contracting officer shall forward a copy of the negotiation documentation to the office(s) providing assistance. When appropriate, information on how advisory field support can be made more effective should be provided separately.
22.605 Rulings and interpretations of the statute. (a) (a) As authorized by the Act, the Secretary of Labor has issued rulings and interpretations concerning the administration of the statute (see 41 CFR50-206). The substance of certain rulings and interpretations is as follows: (b) (b) [Reserved]
52.222-17 	[Reserved] No subsections found.
3.1102 Policy. (a) (a) Identify and prevent personal conflicts of interest of their covered employees; and (b) (b) Prohibit covered employees who have access to nonpublic information by reason of performance on a Government contract from using such information for personal gain.
52.214-5 Submission of Bids. (a) (a) Bids and bid modifications shall be submitted in sealed envelopes or packages (unless submitted by electronic means)- (b) (b) Bidders using commercial carrier services shall ensure that the bid is addressed and marked on the outermost envelope or wrapper as prescribed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this provision when delivered to the office specified in the solicitation. (c) (c) Facsimile bids, modifications, or withdrawals, will not be considered unless authorized by the solicitation. (d) (d) Bids submitted by electronic commerce shall be considered only if the electronic commerce method was specifically stipulated or permitted by the solicitation.
52.236-14 Availability and Use of Utility Services. (a) (a) The Government shall make all reasonably required amounts of utilities available to the Contractor from existing outlets and supplies, as specified in the contract. Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the amount of each utility service consumed shall be charged to or paid for by the Contractor at prevailing rates charged to the Government or, where the utility is produced by the Government, at reasonable rates determined by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall carefully conserve any utilities furnished without charge. (b) (b) The Contractor, at its expense and in a workmanlike manner satisfactory to the Contracting Officer, shall install and maintain all necessary temporary connections and distribution lines, and all meters required to measure the amount of each utility used for the purpose of determining charges. Before final acceptance of the work by the Government, the Contractor shall remove all the temporary connections, distribution lines, meters, and associated paraphernalia.
Subpart 37.3 - Dismantling, Demolition, or Removal of Improvements No subsections found.
42.708 Quick-closeout procedure. (a) (a) The contracting officer responsible for contract closeout shall negotiate the settlement of direct and indirect costs for a specific contract, task order, or delivery order to be closed, in advance of the determination of final direct costs and indirect rates set forth in 42.705, if- (b) (b) Determinations of final indirect costs under the quick-closeout procedure provided for by the Allowable Cost and Payment clause at 52.216-7 shall be final for the contract it covers and no adjustment shall be made to other contracts for over- or under-recoveries of costs allocated or allocable to the contract covered by the agreement. (c) (c) Indirect cost rates used in the quick closeout of a contract shall not be considered a binding precedent when establishing the final indirect cost rates for other contracts.
52.100 Scope of subpart. (a) (a) Gives instructions for using part  52, including the explanation and use of provision and clause numbers, prescriptions, prefaces, and the matrix; (b) (b) Prescribes procedures for incorporating, identifying, and modifying provisions and clauses in solicitations and contracts, and for using alternates; and (c) (c) Describes the derivation of FAR provisions and clauses.
Subpart 26.1 - Indian Incentive Program No subsections found.
53.218 [Reserved] No subsections found.
Subpart 4.23 Federal Acquisition Security Council. No subsections found.
15.607 Criteria for acceptance and negotiation of an unsolicited proposal. (a) (a) A favorable comprehensive evaluation of an unsolicited proposal does not, in itself, justify awarding a contract without providing for full and open competition. The agency point of contact shall return an unsolicited proposal to the offeror, citing reasons, when its substance- (b) (b) The contracting officer may commence negotiations on a sole source basis only when-
32.204 Procedures for contracting officer-specified commercial contract financing. No subsections found.
27.204-2 Use of patented technology under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). No subsections found.
52.247-47 Evaluation-F.o.b. Origin. (a) (a) The Government normally uses land methods of transportation by regulated common carrier for shipment within the contiguous United States. (b) (b) To evaluate offers, the Government will consider only these methods to establish the cost of transportation between offeror’s shipping point and destination (tentative or firm, whichever is applicable) in the contiguous United States. (c) (c) This transportation cost will be added to the offer price to determine the Government’s overall cost. (d) (d) When tentative destinations are indicated, the Government will use them only for evaluation purposes. The Government has the right to use any other means of transportation or any other destination at the time of shipment.
42.501 General. (a) (a) A postaward orientation aids both Government and contractor personnel to (1) achieve a clear and mutual understanding of all contract requirements, and (2) identify and resolve potential problems. However, it is not a substitute for the contractor’s fully understanding the work requirements at the time offers are submitted, nor is it to be used to alter the final agreement arrived at in any negotiations leading to contract award. (b) (b) Postaward orientation is encouraged to assist (see part  19)- (c) (c) While cognizant Government or contractor personnel may request the contracting officer to arrange for orientation, it is up to the contracting officer to decide whether a postaward orientation in any form is necessary. (d) (d) Maximum benefits will be realized when orientation is conducted promptly after award.
52.219-32 Orders Issued Directly Under Small Business Reserves (a) (a) Applicability. This clause applies only to contracts that were reserved for any of the small business concerns identified at 19.000(a)(3). (b) (b) If there is only one contract award to any one type of small business concern identified in 19.000(a)(3) as a result of the reserve, the Contracting Officer may issue an order or orders directly to the concern.
31.205-11 Depreciation. (a) (a) Depreciation on a contractor’s plant, equipment, and other capital facilities is an allowable contract cost, subject to the limitations contained in this cost principle. For tangible personal property, only estimated residual values that exceed 10 percent of the capitalized cost of the asset need be used in establishing depreciable costs. Where either the declining balance method of depreciation or the class life asset depreciation range system is used, the residual value need not be deducted from capitalized cost to determine depreciable costs. Depreciation cost that would significantly reduce the book value of a tangible capital asset below its residual value is unallowable. (b) (b) Contractors having contracts subject to 48 CFR9904.409, Depreciation of Tangible Capital Assets, shall adhere to the requirement of that standard for all fully CAS-covered contracts and may elect to adopt the standard for all other contracts. All requirements of 48 CFR9904.409 are applicable if the election is made, and contractors must continue to follow it until notification of final acceptance of all deliverable items on all open negotiated Government contracts. (c) (c) For contracts to which 48 CFR9904.409 is not applied, except as indicated in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this subsection, allowable depreciation shall not exceed the amount used for financial accounting purposes, and shall be determined in a manner consistent with the depreciation policies and procedures followed in the same segment on non-Government business. (d) (d) Depreciation, rental, or use charges are unallowable on property acquired from the Government at no cost by the contractor or by any division, subsidiary, or affiliate of the contractor under common control. (e) (e) The depreciation on any item which meets the criteria for allowance at price under 31.205-26(e) may be based on that price, provided the same policies and procedures are used for costing all business of the using division, subsidiary, or organization under common control. (f) (f) No depreciation or rental is allowed on property fully depreciated by the contractor or by any division, subsidiary, or affiliate of the contractor under common control. However, a reasonable charge for using fully depreciated property may be agreed upon and allowed (but, see 31.109(h)(2)). In determining the charge, consideration shall be given to cost, total estimated useful life at the time of negotiations, effect of any increased maintenance charges or decreased efficiency due to age, and the amount of depreciation previously charged to Government contracts or subcontracts. (g) (g) Whether or not the contract is otherwise subject to CAS the following apply: (h) (h) A "capital lease," as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC) 840, Leases, is subject to the requirements of this cost principle. (See 31.205-36 for Operating Leases.) FASB ASC 840 requires that capital leases be treated as purchased assets, i.e., be capitalized, and the capitalized value of such assets be distributed over their useful lives as depreciation charges or over the leased life as amortization charges, as appropriate, except that-
52.246 [Reserved] No subsections found.
35.013 Insurance. No subsections found.
53.225 [Reserved] No subsections found.
13.501 Special documentation requirements. (a) (a) Sole source (including brand name) acquisitions. (b) (b) Contract file documentation. The contract file must include-
2.101 Definitions. No subsections found.
52.250-1 Indemnification Under Public Law85-804. (a) (a) "Contractor’s principal officials," as used in this clause, means directors, officers, managers, superintendents, or other representatives supervising or directing- (b) (b) Under Public Law85-804 (50 U.S.C. 1431-1435) and Executive Order 10789, as amended, and regardless of any other provisions of this contract, the Government shall, subject to the limitations contained in the other paragraphs of this clause, indemnify the Contractor against- (c) (c) This indemnification applies only to the extent that the claim, loss, or damage (1) arises out of or results from a risk defined in this contract as unusually hazardous or nuclear and (2)is not compensated for by insurance or otherwise. Any such claim, loss, or damage, to the extent that it is within the deductible amounts of the Contractor’s insurance, is not covered under this clause. If insurance coverage or other financial protection in effect on the date the approving official authorizes use of this clause is reduced, the Government’s liability under this clause shall not increase as a result. (d) (d) When the claim, loss, or damage is caused by willful misconduct or lack of good faith on the part of any of the Contractor’s principal officials, the Contractor shall not be indemnified for- (e) (e) With the Contracting Officer’s prior written approval, the Contractor may, in any subcontract under this contract, indemnify the subcontractor against any risk defined in this contract as unusually hazardous or nuclear. This indemnification shall provide, between the Contractor and the subcontractor, the same rights and duties, and the same provisions for notice, furnishing of evidence or proof, and Government settlement or defense of claims as this clause provides. The Contracting Officer may also approve indemnification of subcontractors at any lower tier, under the same terms and conditions. The Government shall indemnify the Contractor against liability to subcontractors incurred under subcontract provisions approved by the Contracting Officer. (f) (f) The rights and obligations of the parties under this clause shall survive this contract’s termination, expiration, or completion. The Government shall make no payment under this clause unless the agency head determines that the amount is just and reasonable. The Government may pay the Contractor or subcontractors, or may directly pay parties to whom the Contractor or subcontractors may be liable. (g) (g) The Contractor shall- (h) (h) The Government may direct, control, or assist in settling or defending any claim or action that may involve indemnification under this clause.
Subpart 22.13 - Equal Opportunity for Veterans No subsections found.
22.1003-4 Administrative limitations, variations, tolerances, and exemptions. (a) (a) The Secretary of Labor may provide reasonable limitations and may make rules and regulations allowing reasonable variations, tolerances, and exemptions to and from any or all provisions of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute other than 41 U.S.C. 6707(f). These will be made only in special circumstances where it has been determined that the limitation, variation, tolerance, or exemption is necessary and proper in the public interest or to avoid the serious impairment of Government business, and is in accord with the remedial purpose of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute to protect prevailing labor standards (41 U.S.C. 6707(b)). See 29 CFR 4.123 for a listing of administrative exemptions, tolerances, and variations. Requests for limitations, variances, tolerances, and exemptions from the Service Contract Labor Standards statute shall be submitted in writing through contracting channels and the agency labor advisor to the Wage and Hour Administrator. (b) (b) In addition to the statutory exemptions cited in 22.1003-3 of this subsection, the Secretary of Labor has exempted the following types of contracts from all provisions of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute: (c) (c) Contracts for maintenance, calibration or repair of certain equipment.- (d) (d) Contracts for certain services.-
23.202 Policy. (a) (a) Agencies should make maximum use of the authority provided in the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287) to use an energy savings performance contract (ESPC), when life-cycle cost-effective to reduce energy use and cost in the agency's facilities and operations. (b) (b) (c) (c) To solicit and award an ESPC, the contracting officer— (d) (d) For procedures related to unsolicited proposals for energy savings performance contracts, see 15.603(e). (e) (e) For more information see https://energy.gov/​eere/​femp/​energy-savings-performance-contracts-federal-agencies.
Subpart 6.1 - Full and Open Competition No subsections found.
22.1011 [Reserved] No subsections found.
31.002 Availability of accounting guide. No subsections found.
52.241-3 Scope and Duration of Contract. (a) (a) For the period _______________________, [insert period of service] the Contractor agrees to furnish and the Government agrees to purchase _____________________ [insert type of service] utility service in accordance with the applicable tariff(s), rules, and regulations as approved by the applicable governing regulatory body and as set forth in the contract. (b) (b) It is expressly understood that neither the Contractor nor the Government is under any obligation to continue any service under the terms and conditions of this contract beyond the expiration date. (c) (c) The Contractor shall provide the Government with one complete set of rates, terms, and conditions of service which are in effect as of the date of this contract and any subsequently approved rates. (d) (d) The Contractor shall be paid at the applicable rate(s) under the tariff and the Government shall be liable for the minimum monthly charge, if any, specified in this contract commencing with the period in which service is initially furnished and continuing for the term of this contract. Any minimum monthly charge specified in this contract shall be equitably prorated for the periods in which commencement and termination of this contract become effective.
25.703-4 Waiver. (a) (a) An agency or contractor seeking	a waiver of the requirements of 25.703-2 or 25.703-3, consistent with	section 6(b)(5) of the Iran Sanctions Act or 22 U.S.C. 8551(b),	respectively, and the Presidential Memorandum of September 23, 2010 (75	FR 67025), shall submit the request to the Office of Federal Procurement	Policy, allowing sufficient time for review and approval. (b) (b) Agencies	may request a waiver on an individual or class basis; however, waivers	are not indefinite and can be cancelled, if warranted. (c) (c) In general,	all waiver requests should include the following information:
Federal Acquisition Regulation No subsections found.
9.110-5 Contract clause. No subsections found.
4.804-3 Closeout of paying office contract files. No subsections found.
Subpart 40.1 - [Reserved] No subsections found.
28.203-1 Acceptability of individual sureties. (a) (a)An individual surety is acceptable for all types of bonds except position schedule bonds. Assets pledged by an individual surety shall meet the eligibility requirements of Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Per 31 U.S.C. 9310, individual sureties must pledge eligible obligations, which Treasury refers to as acceptable collateral or eligible collateral. A list of acceptable assets, entitled “Acceptable Collateral for 31 CFR part 225,” may be accessed by going to https://www.treasurydirect.gov/​files/​laws-and-regulations/​collateral-programs/​2018-final-225-list-of-acceptable-collateral.pdf and clicking on “Acceptable Collateral for 31 CFR part 225”. (b) (b) (c) (c)Using the information from the SF 28 submitted by the offeror or contractor, the contracting officer shall notify the Treasury's collateral operations support team by email at BMT@fiscal.treasury.gov or by phone at 888-568-7343, of the individual surety, the assets to be pledged, and the amount necessary to cover the individual surety bond, i.e., the required amount to be collateralized. Treasury will advise the contracting officer whether the assets are eligible to be pledged, consistent with 28.203-1(a), and of the valuation of the assets offered to be pledged, consistent with the valuation standards in 28.203-1(b)(2). If after 3 business days the contracting officer has not received a response from Treasury, the contracting officer may seek assistance from the Director, Bank Policy and Oversight, at 202-504-3502. The contracting officer shall determine whether the individual surety bond is acceptable as to the amount necessary to cover the individual surety bond based on the asset eligibility and valuation assessment from Treasury. The contracting officer shall notify both the offeror or contractor and the individual surety of this determination. (d) (d)If the contracting officer determines the individual surety is acceptable, the contracting officer shall request the Treasury's collateral operations support team set up the necessary individual surety pledged asset collateral account. (e) (e)If the contracting officer determines that no individual surety in support of a bid guarantee is acceptable, the offeror utilizing the individual surety shall be rejected as nonresponsible, except as provided in 28.101-4. A finding of nonresponsibility based on unacceptability of an individual surety, need not be referred to the Small Business Administration for a Certificate of Competency. (See 19.602-1(a) and 61 Comp. Gen. 456 (1982).) (f) (f)If a contractor submits an unacceptable individual surety, or one that Treasury could not assess the asset eligibility and valuation within a reasonable time, then the contracting officer may permit the contractor to substitute an acceptable surety within a reasonable time. (g) (g)Evidence of possible criminal or fraudulent activities by an individual surety shall be referred to the appropriate agency official in accordance with agency procedures.
36.215 Special procedure for cost-reimbursement contracts for construction. No subsections found.
4.803 Contents of contract files. (a) (a) Contracting office contract file. (b) (b) Contract administration office contract file. (c) (c) Paying office contract file.
9.301 Definition. No subsections found.
32.800 Scope of subpart. No subsections found.
9.108 Prohibition on contracting with inverted domestic corporations. No subsections found.
37.304 Contract clauses. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.237-4, Payment by Government to Contractor, in solicitations and contracts solely for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements whenever the contracting officer determines that the Government shall make payment to the contractor in addition to any title to property that the contractor may receive under the contract. If the contracting officer determines that all material resulting from the dismantling or demolition work is to be retained by the Government, use the basic clause with its AlternateI. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.237-5, Payment by Contractor to Government in solicitations and contracts for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements whenever the contractor is to receive title to dismantled or demolished property and a net amount of compensation is due to the Government, except if the contracting officer determines that it would be advantageous to the Government for the contractor to pay in increments and the Government to transfer title to the contractor for increments of property only upon receipt of those payments. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.237-6, Incremental Payment by Contractor to Government, in solicitations and contracts for dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements if (l) the contractor is to receive title to dismantled or demolished property and a net amount of compensation is due the Government, and (2) the contracting officer determines that it would be advantageous to the Government for the contractor to pay in increments, and for the Government to transfer title to the contractor for increments of property only upon receipt of those payments. This determination may be appropriate, for example, if it encourages greater competition or participation of small business concerns.
19.705-4 Reviewing the subcontracting plan. (a) (a) No detailed standards apply to every subcontracting plan. Instead, the contracting officer shall consider each plan in terms of the circumstances of the particular acquisition, including- (b) (b) If, under a sealed bid solicitation, a bidder submits a plan that does not cover each of the 15 required elements (see 19.704), the contracting officer shall advise the bidder of the deficiency and request submission of a revised plan by a specific date. If the bidder does not submit a plan that incorporates the required elements within the time allotted, the bidder shall be ineligible for award. If the plan, although responsive, evidences the bidder’s intention not to comply with its obligations under the clause at 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns, the contracting officer may find the bidder nonresponsible. (c) (c) In negotiated acquisitions, the contracting officer shall determine whether the plan is acceptable based on the negotiation of each of the 15 elements of the plan (see 19.704). Subcontracting goals should be set at a level that the parties reasonably expect can result from the offeror expending good faith efforts to use small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business subcontractors to the maximum practicable extent. The contracting officer shall take particular care to ensure that the offeror has not submitted unreasonably low goals to minimize exposure to liquidated damages and to avoid the administrative burden of substantiating good faith efforts. Additionally, particular attention should be paid to the identification of steps that, if taken, would be considered a good faith effort (see 19.705-7). No goal should be negotiated upward if it is apparent that a higher goal will significantly increase the Government’s cost or seriously impede the attainment of acquisition objectives. An incentive subcontracting clause (see 52.219-10, Incentive Subcontracting Program), may be used when additional and unique contract effort, such as providing technical assistance, could significantly increase subcontract awards to small business, small disadvantaged business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned small business concerns. (d) (d) In determining the acceptability of a proposed subcontracting plan, the contracting officer should take the following actions:
25.104 Nonavailable articles. (a) (a) The following articles have been determined to be nonavailable in accordance with 25.103(b)(1)(i): (b) (b) This list will be published in the Federal Register for public comment no less frequently than once every five years. Unsolicited recommendations for deletions from this list may be submitted at any time and should provide sufficient data and rationale to permit evaluation (see 1.502).
52.204-16 Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting. (a) (a) Definition. As used in this provision – (b) (b) The Offeror shall provide its CAGE code with its offer with its name and location address or otherwise include it prominently in its proposal. The CAGE code must be for that name and location address. Insert the word "CAGE" before the number. The CAGE code is required prior to award. (c) (c) CAGE codes may be obtained via– (d) (d) Additional guidance for establishing and maintaining CAGE codes is available at https://cage.dla.mil. (e) (e) When a CAGE code is required for the immediate owner and/or the highest-level owner by Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.204-17 or 52.212-3(p), the Offeror shall obtain the respective CAGE code from that entity to supply the CAGE code to the Government. (f) (f) Do not delay submission of the offer pending receipt of a CAGE code. (g) (g) If the solicitation includes FAR clause 52.204-2, Security Requirements, a subcontractor requiring access to classified information under a contract shall be identified with a CAGE code on the DD Form 254. The Contractor shall require a subcontractor requiring access to classified information to provide its CAGE code with its name and location address or otherwise include it prominently in the proposal. Each location of subcontractor performance listed on the DD Form 254 is required to reflect a corresponding unique CAGE code for each listed location unless the work is being performed at a Government facility, in which case the agency location code shall be used. The CAGE code must be for that name and location address. Insert the word "CAGE" before the number. The CAGE code is required prior to award.
40.202-7 Procedures. (a) (a) Documenting exemptions, exceptions, or waivers. The contracting officer shall document the file with any exemption, exception, or waiver provided by the program office or requiring activity. Additionally, the contracting officer shall work with the program office or requiring activity to ensure the presence and scoping of any such exemptions, exceptions, or waivers are identified in the solicitation and resultant contract. (b) (b) Assessment of unmanned aircraft systems. Except where an exemption, exception, or waiver applies, the contracting officer shall work with the program office or requiring activity to review proposals to ensure they are not proposing delivery of a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system. On or after December 22, 2025, this assessment shall expand to include review for not only proposed delivery, but also operation, of a FASC-prohibited unmanned aircraft system.
47.401 Definitions. No subsections found.
47.305-10 Packing, marking, and consignment instructions. (a) (a) Acquisition documents shall include packing and marking requirements necessary to prevent deterioration of supplies and damages due to the hazards of shipping, handling, and storage, and, when appropriate, marking in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 172.300. (b) (b) Contracts shall include complete consignment and marking instructions at the time the contract is awarded to ensure that supplies are delivered to proper destinations without delay. If complete consignment information is not initially known, the contracting officer shall issue amended delivery instructions under the Changes clause of the contract (see 43.205) as soon as the information becomes known. (c) (c) If necessary to meet required delivery schedules, the contracting officer may issue instructions by telephone or electronic means. The contracting officer shall confirm telephonic instructions in writing, and confirm electronic instructions if the contracting officer did not receive confirmation of receipt. (d) (d) Marking and consignment instructions for military shipments shall conform to the current issue of MIL-STD-129 (Military Standard Marking for Shipment and Storage) and other applicable DoD regulations. Shipments for civilian agencies shall be marked as specified in Federal Standard 123, Marking for Domestic Shipment (Civil Agencies).
Subpart 42.8 - Disallowance of Costs No subsections found.
Subpart 4.8 - Government Contract Files No subsections found.
16.401 General. (a) (a) Incentive contracts as described in this subpart are appropriate when a firm-fixed-price contract is not appropriate and the required supplies or services can be acquired at lower costs and, in certain instances, with improved delivery or technical performance, by relating the amount of profit or fee payable under the contract to the contractor’s performance. Incentive contracts are designed to obtain specific acquisition objectives by- (b) (b) When predetermined, formula-type incentives on technical performance or delivery are included, increases in profit or fee are provided only for achievement that surpasses the targets, and decreases are provided for to the extent that such targets are not met. The incentive increases or decreases are applied to performance targets rather than minimum performance requirements. (c) (c) The two basic categories of incentive contracts are fixed-price incentive contracts (see 16.403 and 16.404) and cost-reimbursement incentive contracts (see 16.405). Since it is usually to the Government’s advantage for the contractor to assume substantial cost responsibility and an appropriate share of the cost risk, fixed-price incentive contracts are preferred when contract costs and performance requirements are reasonably certain. Cost-reimbursement incentive contracts are subject to the overall limitations in 16.301 that apply to all cost-reimbursement contracts. (d) (d) A determination and	finding, signed by the head of the contracting activity, shall be completed	for all incentive- and award-fee contracts justifying that the use of this	type of contract is in the best interest of the Government. This	determination shall be documented in the contract file and, for award-fee	contracts, shall address all of the suitability items in 16.401(e)(1). (e) (e) Award-fee contracts are a type of incentive contract. (f) (f) Incentive- and Award-Fee Data Collection and Analysis. Each agency shall collect relevant data on award fee and incentive fees paid to contractors and include performance measures to evaluate such data on a regular basis to determine effectiveness of award and incentive fees as a tool for improving contractor performance and achieving desired program outcomes. This information should be considered as part of the acquisition planning process (see 7.105) in determining the appropriate type of contract to be utilized for future acquisitions. (g) (g) Incentive- and Award-Fee Best Practices. Each agency head shall provide mechanisms for sharing proven incentive strategies for the acquisition of different types of products and services among contracting and program management officials.
43.106 [Reserved] No subsections found.
19.602-2 Issuing or denying a Certificate of Competency (COC). (a) (a) Inform the small business concern of the contracting officer’s determination and offer it an opportunity to apply to the SBA for a COC. (A concern wishing to apply for a COC should notify the SBA Area Office serving the geographical area in which the headquarters of the offeror is located.) (b) (b) Upon timely receipt of a complete and acceptable application, elect to visit the applicant’s facility to review its responsibility. (c) (c) Consider denying a COC for reasons of nonresponsibility not originally cited by the contracting officer. (d) (d) When the Area Director determines that a COC is warranted (for contracts valued at $25,000,000 or less), notify the contracting officer and provide the following options: (e) (e) At the completion of the process, notify the concern and the contracting officer that the COC is denied or is being issued. (f) (f) Refer recommendations for issuing a COC on contracts greater than $25,000,000 to SBA Headquarters.
52.242-10 [Reserved] No subsections found.
18.116 Service-disabled Veteran-owned Small Business (SDVOSB) sole source awards. No subsections found.
52.237-9 Waiver of Limitation on Severance Payments to Foreign Nationals. (a) (a) Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3744(b) or 41 U.S.C. 4304(b)(1), as applicable, the cost allowability limitations in FAR 31.205-6(g)(6) are waived. (b) (b) This clause may be incorporated into subcontracts issued under this contract, if approved by the Contracting Officer.
52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-System for Award Management. (a) (a) Method of payment. (b) (b) Contractor's EFT information. The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the System for Award Management (SAM). In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to SAM. (c) (c) Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR Part 210. (d) (d) Suspension of payment. If the Contractor’s EFT information in the SAM is incorrect, then the Government need not make payment to the Contractor under this contract until correct EFT information is entered into the SAM; and any invoice or contract financing request shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply. (e) (e) Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers. (f) (f) EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System. (g) (g) EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in SAM and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this contract, payment to an ultimate recipient other than the Contractor, or a financial institution properly recognized under an assignment of claims pursuant to subpart  32.8, is not permitted. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause. (h) (h) Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information made by the Contractor’s financial agent. (i) (i) Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address contained in SAM.
Part 25 - Foreign Acquisition No subsections found.
47.403-2 Air transport agreements between the United States and foreign governments. No subsections found.
52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause- (b) (b) Policy. The United States Government has adopted a policy prohibiting trafficking in persons including the trafficking-related activities of this clause. Contractors, contractor employees, and their agents shall not- (c) (c) Contractor requirements. The Contractor shall- (d) (d) Notification. (e) (e) Remedies. In addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contractor’s failure to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), (g), (h), or (i) of this clause may result in- (f) (f) Mitigating and aggravating factors. When determining remedies, the Contracting Officer may consider the following: (g) (g) Full cooperation. (h) (h) Compliance plan. (i) (i) Subcontracts.
46.307 Fixed-price research and development contracts. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.246-7, Inspection of Research and Development-Fixed-Price, in solicitations and contracts for research and development when- (b) (b) The contracting officer may insert the clause in such solicitations and contracts when the contract amount is expected to be at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, and its use is in the Government’s interest.
25.1103 Other provisions and clauses. (a) (a) Restrictions on certain foreign purchases. Insert the clause at 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases, in solicitations and contracts, unless an exception applies. (b) (b) Translations. Insert the clause at 52.225-14, Inconsistency Between English Version and Translation of Contract, in solicitations and contracts if anticipating translation into another language. (c) (c) Foreign currency offers. Insert the provision at 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, in solicitations that permit the use of other than a specified currency. Insert in the provision the source of the rate to be used in the evaluation of offers. (d) (d) The contracting officer shall include in each solicitation for the acquisition of other than commercial products or commercial services the provision at 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan—Certification. (e) (e) The contracting officer shall include in all solicitations the provision at 52.225-25, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-Representation and Certifications.
32.105 Uses of contract financing. (a) (a) Contract financing methods covered in this part are intended to be self-liquidating through contract performance. Consequently, agencies shall only use the methods for financing of contractor working capital, not for the expansion of contractor-owned facilities or the acquisition of fixed assets. However, under loan guarantees, exceptions may be made for- (b) (b) The limitations in this section do not apply to contracts under which facilities are being acquired for Government ownership.
28.303 Insurance against loss of or damage to Government property. No subsections found.
25.801 General. No subsections found.
49.602-4 Partial payments. No subsections found.
52.217-4 Evaluation of Options Exercised at Time of Contract Award. No subsections found.
22.102-1 Policy. (a) (a) Safety; (b) (b) Health and sanitation; (c) (c) Maximum hours and minimum wages; (d) (d) Equal employment opportunity; (e) (e) Child and convict labor; (f) (f) Age discrimination; (g) (g) Disabled and Vietnam veteran employment; (h) (h) Employment of workers with disabilities; and (i) (i) Eligibility for employment under United States immigration laws.
22.504 General requirements for project labor agreements. (a) (a) General. Project labor agreements established under this subpart shall fully conform to all statutes, regulations, and Executive orders. (b) (b) Requirements. A project labor agreement shall- (c) (c) Labor organizations. An agency may not require contractors or subcontractors to enter into a project labor agreement with any particular labor organization. (d) (d) Exceptions to project labor agreement requirements—
Subpart 49.4 - Termination for Default No subsections found.
37.115-1 Scope. No subsections found.
Part 18 - Emergency Acquisitions No subsections found.
Subpart 34.2 - Earned Value Management System No subsections found.
52.201 [Reserved] No subsections found.
15.506 Postaward debriefing of offerors. (a) (a) (b) (b) Debriefings of successful and unsuccessful offerors may be done orally, in writing, or by any other method acceptable to the contracting officer. (c) (c) The contracting officer should normally chair any debriefing session held. Individuals who conducted the evaluations shall provide support. (d) (d) At a minimum, the debriefing information shall include- (e) (e) The debriefing shall not include point-by-point comparisons of the debriefed offeror’s proposal with those of other offerors. Moreover, the debriefing shall not reveal any information prohibited from disclosure by 24.202 or exempt from release under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) including- (f) (f) An official summary of the debriefing shall be included in the contract file.
9.108-2 Prohibition. (a) (a) Section 745 of Division D of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Pub. L. 110-161) and its successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions) prohibit, on a Governmentwide basis, the use of appropriated (or otherwise made available) funds for contracts with either an inverted domestic corporation, or a subsidiary of such a corporation, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and in 9.108-4 Waiver. (b) (b)
52.223-20 Aerosols. (a) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause– (b) (b) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor shall reduce its use, release, or emissions of high global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons, when feasible, from aerosol propellants or solvents under this contract. When determining feasibility of using a particular alternative, the Contractor shall consider environmental, technical, and economic factors such as– (c) (c) The Contractor shall refer to EPA's SNAP program to identify alternatives. The SNAP list of alternatives is found at 40 CFR part 82 subpart G with supplemental tables available at https://www.epa.gov/snap/.
34.203 Solicitation provisions and contract clause. (a) (a) The contracting officer shall insert a provision that is substantially the same as the provision at FAR 52.234-2, Notice of Earned Value Management System-Preaward Integrated Baseline Review, in solicitations for contracts that require the contractor to use an Earned Value Management System (EVMS) and for which the Government requires an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR) prior to award. (b) (b) The contracting officer shall insert a provision that is substantially the same as the provision at 52.234-3, Notice of Earned Value Management System-Postaward Integrated Baseline Review, in solicitations for contracts that require the contractor to use an Earned Value Management System (EVMS) and for which the Government requires an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR) after contract award. (c) (c) The contracting officer shall insert a clause that is substantially the same as the clause at FAR 52.234-4, Earned Value Management System, in solicitations and contracts that require a contractor to use an EVMS.
23.108-1 Water-efficient products. (a) (a) Program. EPA's WaterSense® Program makes it easy to find and select water-efficient products that can save water, energy, and money. WaterSense®-labeled products are backed by independent, third-party certification and meet EPA's specifications for water efficiency and performance. (b) (b) Resource. For additional information on WaterSense® products, see https://www.epa.gov/​watersense/​watersense-products.
52.224-2 Privacy Act. (a) (a) The Contractor agrees to- (b) (b) In the event of violations of the Act, a civil action may be brought against the agency involved when the violation concerns the design, development, or operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function, and criminal penalties may be imposed upon the officers or employees of the agency when the violation concerns the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function. For purposes of the Act, when the contract is for the operation of a system of records on individuals to accomplish an agency function, the Contractor is considered to be an employee of the agency. (c) (c)
27.404-5 Unauthorized, omitted, or incorrect markings. (a) (a) Unauthorized marking of data. (b) (b) Omitted or incorrect notices.
Subpart 16.6 - Time-and-Materials, Labor-Hour, and Letter Contracts No subsections found.
11.001 Definitions. No subsections found.
