Heading: 11.002 Policy.
Text: (a) (a)
                   In fulfilling requirements of 
                     10 U.S.C. 3206(a), 10 U.S.C. 3453,
                  41 U.S.C. 3306(a), and 41 U.S.C.3307, agencies shall-
(b) (b)
                   The Metric
Conversion Act of 1975, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness
Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 205a, et
seq.), designates the metric system of measurement as the preferred
system of weights and measures for United States trade and commerce,
and it requires that each agency use the metric system of measurement
in its acquisitions, except to the extent that such use is impracticable
or is likely to cause significant inefficiencies or loss of markets to
United States firms. Requiring activities are responsible for establishing
guidance implementing this policy in formulating their requirements
for acquisitions.
(c) (c)
                   To the
extent practicable and consistent with subpart  9.5, potential
offerors should be given an opportunity to comment on agency requirements
or to recommend application and tailoring of requirements documents
and alternative approaches. Requiring agencies should apply specifications,
standards, and related documents initially for guidance only, making
final decisions on the application and tailoring of these documents
as a product of the design and development process. Requiring agencies
should not dictate detailed design solutions prematurely (see 7.101 and 7.105(a)(8)).
(d) (d)
(e) (e)
                   Some or
all of the performance levels or performance specifications in a
solicitation may be identified as targets rather than as fixed or
minimum requirements.
(f) (f)
                   In accordance
with section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), the
contracting officer shall obtain from the requiring activity the
requirement documents, which must identify—
(g) (g)
                   Unless
the agency Chief Information Officer waives the requirement, when
acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, the requirements
documents must include reference to the appropriate technical capabilities
defined in the USGv6 Profile (NIST Special Publication 500-267)
and the corresponding declarations of conformance defined in the USGv6
Test Program. The applicability of IPv6 to agency networks, infrastructure,
and applications specific to individual acquisitions will be in
accordance with the agency's Enterprise Architecture (see OMB Memorandum
M-05-22 dated August 2, 2005).
(h) (h)
                   Agencies
shall not include in a solicitation a requirement that prohibits
an offeror from permitting its employees to telecommute unless the
contracting officer executes a written determination in accordance
with FAR 7.108(a).

