Heading: 12.302 Tailoring of provisions
and clauses for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial
services.
Text: (a) (a)
General. The provisions
and clauses established in this subpart are intended to address,
to the maximum extent practicable, commercial market practices for
a wide range of potential Government acquisitions of commercial
products and commercial services. However, because of the broad
range of commercial products
and commercial services acquired by the Government, variations
in commercial practices, and the relative volume of the Government’s
acquisitions in the specific market, contracting officers may, within
the limitations of this subpart, and after conducting appropriate
market research, tailor the provision at 52.212-1, Instructions
to Offerors-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, and the
clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms
and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, to adapt
to the market conditions for each acquisition.
(b) (b)
Tailoring
52.212-4, Contract
Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
The following paragraphs of the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms
and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, implement
statutory requirements and shall not be tailored—
(c) (c)
Tailoring
inconsistent with customary commercial practice. The contracting
officer shall not tailor any clause or otherwise include any additional
terms or conditions in a solicitation or contract for commercial
products or commercial services in a manner that is inconsistent
with customary commercial practice for the item being acquired unless
a waiver is approved in accordance with agency procedures. The request
for waiver must describe the customary commercial practice found
in the marketplace, support the need to include a term or condition
that is inconsistent with that practice and include a determination
that use of the customary commercial practice is inconsistent with
the needs of the Government. A waiver may be requested for an individual
or class of contracts for that specific item.
(d) (d) Tailoring
shall be by addenda to the solicitation and contract. The contracting
officer shall indicate in Block27 a of the SF1449 if addenda
are attached. These addenda may include, for example, a continuation
of the schedule of supplies/services to be acquired from blocks
18 through 21 of the SF1449; a continuation
of the description of the supplies/services being acquired; further
elaboration of any other item(s) on the SF1449; any other
terms or conditions necessary for the performance of the proposed
contract (such as options, ordering procedures for indefinite-delivery
type contracts, warranties, contract financing arrangements, etc.).

