Heading: 13.201 General.
Text: (a) (a)
                  
                  
                  
                  
						             Agency heads are encouraged to delegate micro-purchase authority (see 1.603-3).
(b) (b)
                  
                  
                  
                  
						             The Governmentwide commercial purchase card shall be the preferred method to purchase and to pay for micro-purchases (see 2.101).
(c) (c)
                  
                  
                  
                  
						             Purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold may be conducted using any of the methods described in subpart 13.3, provided the purchaser is authorized and trained, pursuant to agency procedures, to use those methods.
(d) (d)
                  
                  
                  
                  
						             Micro-purchases do not require provisions or clauses, except as provided at 13.202 and 32.1110. This paragraph takes precedence over any other FAR requirement to the contrary, but does not prohibit the use of any clause.
(e) (e)
                  
                  
                  
                  
						             The requirements in part  8 apply to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold.
(f) (f)
                   The procurement requirements in 23.1 apply to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold.
(g) (g)
(h) (h)
                  
                  
                  
                  
						             When using the Governmentwide commercial purchase card as a method of payment, purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold are exempt from verification in the System for Award Management as to whether the contractor has a delinquent debt subject to collection under the Treasury Offset Program (TOP).
(i) (i)
                  
                  
                  
                  
						             Do not purchase any hardware, software, or services developed or provided by Kaspersky Lab that the Government will use on or after October 1, 2018. (See 4.2002).
(j) (j)
(k) (k)
                  
                   The prohibition in subpart  4.22 on use of a covered application (“TikTok”) applies to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold where the performance of the contract may require the presence or use of a covered application, (e.g., where social media advertising services might be part of the procurement), unless an exception is granted in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-23-13 (see 4.2202).
(l) (l)
                   Do not procure or obtain, or extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain, any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, including contractor use of covered articles or sources, if prohibited from doing so by an applicable Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act (FASCSA) order issued by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, or Secretary of Homeland Security (see 4.2303).
(m) (m) The prohibitions on unmanned aircraft systems (e.g., drones) in 40.202 apply to purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold.

