Heading: 14.407-3 Other mistakes disclosed before award.
Text: (a) (a)
                  
						            If a bidder requests permission to correct a mistake and clear and convincing evidence establishes both the existence of the mistake and the bid actually intended, the agency head may make a determination permitting the bidder to correct the mistake; provided, that if this correction would result in displacing one or more lower bids, such a determination shall not be made unless the existence of the mistake and the bid actually intended are ascertainable substantially from the invitation and the bid itself.
(b) (b)
                  
						            If-
(c) (c)
                  
						            If, under paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection, (1) the evidence of a mistake is clear and convincing only as to the mistake but not as to the intended bid, or (2) the evidence reasonably supports the existence of a mistake but is not clear and convincing, an official above the contracting officer, unless otherwise provided by agency procedures, may make a determination permitting the bidder to withdraw the bid.
(d) (d)
                  
						            If the evidence does not warrant a determination under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the agency head may make a determination that the bid be neither withdrawn nor corrected.
(e) (e)
                  
						            Heads of agencies may	delegate their authority to make the determinations under paragraphs (a),	(b), (c), and (d) of this 14.407-3 to a	central authority, or a limited number of authorities as necessary, in their	agencies, without power of redelegation.
(f) (f)
                  
						            Each proposed determination shall have the concurrence of legal counsel within the agency concerned before issuance.
(g) (g)
                  
						            Suspected or alleged mistakes in bids shall be processed as follows. A mere statement by the administrative officials that they are satisfied that an error was made is insufficient.
(h) (h)
                  
						            Each agency shall	maintain records of all determinations made in accordance with this	subsection 14.407-3, the	facts involved, and the action taken in each case. Copies of all such	determinations shall be included in the file.
(i) (i)
                  
						            Nothing contained in	this subsection 14.407-3 prevents an agency from submitting doubtful cases to the Comptroller General	for advance decision.

