Heading: 15.408 Solicitation provisions
and contract clauses.
Text: (a) (a)
Changes or Additions to Make-or-Buy
Program. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
52.215-9, Changes or Additions to Make-or-Buy Program, in solicitations
and contracts when it is contemplated that a make-or-buy program will
be incorporated in the contract. If a less economical "make" or
"buy" categorization is selected for one or more items of significant
value, the contracting officer shall use the clause with-
(b) (b)
Price
Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data. The
contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert
the clause at 52.215-10,
Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data, in
solicitations and contracts when it is contemplated that certified
cost or pricing data will be required from the contractor or any
subcontractor (see 15.403-4).
(c) (c)
Price
Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications.
The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation,
insert the clause at 52.215-11,
Price Reduction for Defective Certified Cost or Pricing Data—Modifications,
in solicitations and contracts when it is contemplated that certified
cost or pricing data will be required from the contractor or any
subcontractor (see 15.403-4)
for the pricing of contract modifications, and the clause prescribed
in paragraph (b) of this section has not been included.
(d) (d)
Subcontractor
Certified Cost or Pricing Data. The contracting officer shall—
(e) (e)
Subcontractor
Certified Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. The contracting
officer shall—
(f) (f) Integrity
of Unit Prices.
(g) (g)
Pension
Adjustments and Asset Reversions. The contracting officer shall
insert the clause at 52.215-15,
Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions, in solicitations and contracts
for which it is anticipated that certified cost or pricing data
will be required or for which any preaward or postaward cost determinations
will be subject to part 31.
(h) (h)
Facilities
Capital Cost of Money. The contracting officer shall insert
the provision at 52.215-16,
Facilities Capital Cost of Money, in solicitations expected to result
in contracts that are subject to the cost principles for contracts
with commercial organizations (see subpart 31.2).
(i) (i)
Waiver
of Facilities Capital Cost of Money. If the prospective contractor
does not propose facilities capital cost of money in its offer,
the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-17, Waiver of Facilities
Capital Cost of Money, in the resulting contract.
(j) (j)
Reversion
or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other Than
Pensions. The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
52.215-18, Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits
(PRB) Other Than Pensions, in solicitations and contracts for which
it is anticipated that certified cost or pricing data will be required
or for which any preaward or postaward cost determinations will
be subject to part 31.
(k) (k)
Notification
of Ownership Changes. The contracting officer shall insert the
clause at 52.215-19,
Notification of Ownership Changes, in solicitations and contracts
for which it is contemplated that certified cost or pricing data
will be required or for which any preaward or postaward cost determination
will be subject to subpart 31.2.
(l) (l)
Requirements
for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified
Cost or Pricing Data. Considering the hierarchy at 15.402, the contracting
officer shall insert the provision at 52.215-20, Requirements
for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified
Cost or Pricing Data, in solicitations if it is reasonably certain
that certified cost or pricing data or data other than certified
cost or pricing data will be required. This provision also provides
instructions to offerors on how to request an exception from the
requirement to submit certified cost or pricing data. The contracting
officer shall-
(m) (m)
Requirements
for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified
Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications. Considering the hierarchy
at 15.402, the contracting
officer shall insert the clause at 52.215-21, Requirements
for Certified Cost or Pricing Data and Data Other Than Certified
Cost or Pricing Data-Modifications, in solicitations and contracts
if it is reasonably certain that certified cost or pricing data
or data other than certified cost or pricing data will be required for
modifications. This clause also provides instructions to contractors
on how to request an exception from the requirement to submit certified
cost or pricing data. The contracting officer shall-
(n) (n) Limitations
on Pass-Through Charges.

