Heading: 16.401 General.
Text: (a) (a)
                  
						            Incentive contracts as described in this subpart are appropriate when a firm-fixed-price contract is not appropriate and the required supplies or services can be acquired at lower costs and, in certain instances, with improved delivery or technical performance, by relating the amount of profit or fee payable under the contract to the contractor’s performance. Incentive contracts are designed to obtain specific acquisition objectives by-
(b) (b)
                  
						            When predetermined, formula-type incentives on technical performance or delivery are included, increases in profit or fee are provided only for achievement that surpasses the targets, and decreases are provided for to the extent that such targets are not met. The incentive increases or decreases are applied to performance targets rather than minimum performance requirements.
(c) (c)
                  
						            The two basic categories of incentive contracts are fixed-price incentive contracts (see 16.403 and 16.404) and cost-reimbursement incentive contracts (see 16.405). Since it is usually to the Government’s advantage for the contractor to assume substantial cost responsibility and an appropriate share of the cost risk, fixed-price incentive contracts are preferred when contract costs and performance requirements are reasonably certain. Cost-reimbursement incentive contracts are subject to the overall limitations in 16.301 that apply to all cost-reimbursement contracts.
(d) (d)
                  
						            A determination and	finding, signed by the head of the contracting activity, shall be completed	for all incentive- and award-fee contracts justifying that the use of this	type of contract is in the best interest of the Government. This	determination shall be documented in the contract file and, for award-fee	contracts, shall address all of the suitability items in 16.401(e)(1).
(e) (e)
                  
						            Award-fee contracts are a type of incentive contract.
(f) (f)
Incentive- and Award-Fee Data Collection and Analysis. Each agency shall collect relevant data on award fee and incentive fees paid to contractors and include performance measures to evaluate such data on a regular basis to determine effectiveness of award and incentive fees as a tool for improving contractor performance and achieving desired program outcomes. This information should be considered as part of the acquisition planning process (see 7.105) in determining the appropriate type of contract to be utilized for future acquisitions.
(g) (g)
Incentive- and Award-Fee Best Practices. Each agency head shall provide mechanisms for sharing proven incentive strategies for the acquisition of different types of products and services among contracting and program management officials.

