Heading: 16.506 Solicitation provisions
and contract clauses.
Text: (a) (a) Insert the clause at 52.216-18, Ordering, in
solicitations and contracts when a definite-quantity contract, a
requirements contract, or an indefinite-quantity contract is contemplated.
(b) (b) Insert
a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.216-19, Order Limitations,
in solicitations and contracts when a definite-quantity contract,
a requirements contract, or an indefinite-quantity contract is contemplated.
(c) (c) Insert
the clause at 52.216-20,
Definite Quantity, in solicitations and contracts when a definite-quantity
contract is contemplated.
(d) (d)
(e) (e) Insert
the clause at 52.216-22,
Indefinite Quantity, in solicitations and contracts when an indefinite-quantity
contract is contemplated.
(f) (f) Insert
the provision at 52.216-27,
Single or Multiple Awards, in solicitations for indefinite-quantity
contracts that may result in multiple contract awards. Modify the
provision to specify the estimated number of awards. Do not use
this provision for advisory and assistance services contracts that
exceed 3 years and $15 million (including all options).
(g) (g) Insert
the provision at 52.216-28,
Multiple Awards for Advisory and Assistance Services, in solicitations
for task-order contracts for advisory and assistance services that
exceed 3 years and $15 million (including all options), unless a determination
has been made under 16.504(c)(2)(i)(A).
Modify the provision to specify the estimated number of awards.
(h) (h)
                  See 
                  10.001(d) for insertion
of the clause at 52.210-1,
Market Research, when the contract is over $6 million for the procurement
of items other than commercial
products or commercial services.
(i) (i) See 7.107-6 for
use of 52.207-6, Solicitation
of Offers from Small Business Concerns and Small Business Teaming Arrangement
or Joint Ventures (Multiple-Award Contracts) in solicitations for
multiple-award contracts above the substantial bundling threshold
of the agency.
(j) (j) Insert
the clause at 52.216-32, Task-Order
and Delivery-Order Ombudsman, in solicitations and contracts when
a multiple-award indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity contract
is contemplated. Use the clause with its Alternate I when the contract
will be available for use by multiple agencies (e.g., Governmentwide
acquisition contracts or multi-agency contracts). When placing orders
under the multiple-award contract available for use by multiple
agencies, the ordering activity's contracting officer shall complete
paragraph (d)(2) and include Alternate I in the notice of intent
to place an order, and in the resulting order.

