Heading: 17.106-1 General.
Text: (a) (a)
Method of contracting. The	nature of the requirement should govern the selection of the method	of contracting, since the multi-year procedure is compatible with	sealed bidding, including two-step sealed bidding, and negotiation.
(b) (b)
Type	of contract. Given the longer performance period associated	with multi-year acquisition, consideration in pricing fixed-priced	contracts should be given to the use of economic price adjustment	terms and profit objectives commensurate with contractor risk and	financing arrangements.
(c) (c)
						            Cancellation	procedures.
(d) (d)
Cancellation	ceilings. Cancellation ceilings and dates may be revised after	issuing the solicitation if necessary. In sealed bidding, the contracting	officer shall change the ceiling by amending the solicitation before	bid opening. In two-step sealed bidding, discussions conducted during	the first step may indicate the need for revised ceilings and dates	which may be incorporated in step two. In a negotiated acquisition,	negotiations with offerors may provide information requiring a change	in cancellation ceilings and dates before final negotiation and	contract award.
(e) (e)
Payment	of cancellation charges. If cancellation occurs, the Government’s	liability will be determined by the terms of the applicable contract.
(f) (f)
Presolicitation	or pre-bid conferences. To ensure that all interested sources	of supply are thoroughly aware of how multi-year contracting is	accomplished, use of presolicitation or pre-bid conferences may	be advisable.
(g) (g)
Payment	limit. The contracting officer shall limit the Government’s	payment obligation to an amount available for contract performance.	The contracting officer shall insert the amount for the first program	year in the contract upon award and modify it for successive program	years upon availability of funds.
(h) (h)
Termination	payment. If the contract is terminated for the convenience of	the Government in whole, including requirements subject to cancellation,	the Government’s obligation shall not exceed the amount specified	in the Schedule as available for contract performance, plus the	cancellation ceiling.

