Heading: 18.202 Defense or recovery
from certain events.
Text: (a) (a)
Micro-purchase threshold. The
threshold increases when the head of the agency determines the supplies
or services are to be used to facilitate defense against or recovery
from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack;
to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or
to support response to an emergency or major disaster. (See 2.101.)
(b) (b)
Simplified
acquisition threshold. The threshold increases when the head
of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used
to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological,
chemical, or radiological attack; to facilitate provision of international
disaster assistance; or to support response to an emergency or major
disaster. (See 2.101.)
(c) (c)
Commercial product or commercial service
treatment.
                   Contracting officers may treat any acquisition
of supplies or services as an acquisition of commercial products or
commercial services if the head of the agency determines the
acquisition is to be used to facilitate the defense against or recovery
from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack.
(See 12.102(f)(1) and 13.500(c).)
(d) (d)
Simplified
procedures for certain commercial
products and commercial services.
                   The threshold limits
authorized for use of this authority may be increased when it is
determined the acquisition is to facilitate defense against or recovery from
cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to
facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or to
support response to an emergency or major disaster. (See 13.500(c).)
(e) (e)
Sustainable products and services. Contracting officers are encouraged, but not required, to procure sustainable products and services if the head of the agency determines the supplies or services are to be used to facilitate defense against or recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack; to facilitate provision of international disaster assistance; or to support response to an emergency or major disaster (see 23.106(c)).

