Heading: 19.306 Protesting a firm’s status as a HUBZone small business concern.
Text: (a) (a)
Definition. As used in this section-
(b) (b)
(c) (c)
                  
                  
                   Protests relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures of 19.302. An interested party seeking to protest both the small business size and HUBZone status of an apparent successful offeror shall file two separate protests. Protests relating to small business size status for the acquisition and the HUBZone eligibility requirements will be processed concurrently by SBA.
(d) (d)
(e) (e)
Submission of a protest.
(f) (f)
                  
                  
                  The contracting officer shall forward all protests with a referral letter to the Director of SBA's Office of the HUBZone Program, by email to 
hzprotests@sba.gov. The referral letter shall include the following—
(g) (g)
                  
                  
                  
						            SBA will notify the protester and the contracting officer of the date SBA received the protest.
(h) (h)
                  
                  
                  
						            Before SBA decision.
(i) (i)
                  
                   After SBA decision. The SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested concern of the SBA determination. The determination is effective immediately and is final unless overturned on appeal by SBA’s Associate Administrator, Office of Government Contracting and Business Development (AA/GC&BD).
(j) (j)
                  
                  
                  
						            Appeals of HUBZone status determinations. The protested HUBZone small business concern, the protester, or the contracting officer may file appeals of protest determinations with SBA’s AA/GC&BD. The AA/GC&BD must receive the appeal no later than 5 business days after the date of receipt of the protest determination. SBA will dismiss any untimely appeal.
(k) (k)
                  
                  
                  
						            The appeal must be in writing. The appeal must identify the protest determination being appealed and must set forth a full and specific statement as to why the decision is erroneous or what significant fact the HUBZone Program Director failed to consider.
(l) (l)
(m) (m)
                   The AA/GC&BD will make its decision within 5 business days of the receipt of the appeal, if practicable, and will base its decision only on the information and documentation in the protest record as supplemented by the appeal. SBA will provide a copy of the decision to the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested HUBZone small business concern. The SBA decision, if received before award, will apply to the pending acquisition. The AA/GC&BD's decision is the final decision.

