Heading: 19.308 Protesting a firm’s status as an economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concern or women-owned small business concern eligible under the Women-Owned Small Business Program.
Text: (a) (a)
Definition. Interested party, as used in this section, has the meaning given in 13 CFR 127.102.
(b) (b)
(c) (c)
                  
                  
						            Protests relating to small business size status are subject to the procedures of 19.302. An interested party seeking to protest both the small business size and WOSB or EDWOSB status of an apparent successful offeror shall file two separate protests.
(d) (d)
                  
                  
						            All protests shall be in writing and must state all specific grounds for the protest.
(e) (e)
Protest by an interested party.
(f) (f)
(g) (g)
                  
                  
						            SBA will notify the protester and the contracting officer of the date SBA received the protest.
(h) (h)
Before SBA decision.
(i) (i)
After SBA decision. SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested concern of its determination. The determination is effective immediately and is final unless overturned on appeal by OHA pursuant to 13 CFR part 134.
(j) (j)
                  
                  
						            Appeals of EDWOSB or WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program status determinations.
(k) (k)
The appeal must be in writing. The appeal must identify the protest determination being appealed and must set forth a full and specific statement as to why the EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB program protest determination is alleged to be based on a clear error of fact or law, together with an argument supporting such allegation.
(l) (l)
                  
                  
						            The party appealing the decision must provide notice of the appeal to-
(m) (m)
                  
                  
						            OHA will make its decision within 15 business days of the receipt of the appeal, if practicable. SBA will provide a copy of the decision to the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested EDWOSB concern or WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB program. The OHA decision is the final agency decision and is binding on the parties.

