Heading: 19.301-1 Representation by the offeror.
Text: (a) (a)
(b) (b) An offeror is required to represent its size and socioeconomic status in writing to the contracting officer at the time of initial offer, (whether or not the offer includes price or the price is evaluated), including offers for—
(c) (c)
                  
						            To be eligible for an award of an order under a basic ordering agreement or a BPA issued pursuant to part  13 as a small business concern identified in 19.000(a)(3), the offeror must be a small business concern identified in 19.000(a)(3) at the time of award of the order.
(d) (d) To be eligible for an award under the HUBZone Program (see subpart  19.13), a HUBZone small business concern must be a HUBZone small business concern at the time of initial offer.
(e) (e)
                  
						            Multiple-award contract representations:
(f) (f)
                  
						            The contracting officer shall accept an offeror’s representation in a specific bid or proposal that it is a small business unless (1) another offeror or interested party challenges the concern’s small business representation or (2) the contracting officer has a reason to question the representation. Challenges of and questions concerning a specific representation shall be referred to the SBA in accordance with 19.302.
(g) (g)
                  
						            An offeror’s representation that it is a small business is not binding on the SBA. If an offeror’s small business status is challenged, the SBA will evaluate the status of the concern and make a determination, which will be binding on the contracting officer, as to whether the offeror is a small business. A concern cannot become eligible for a specific award by taking action to meet the definition of a small business concern after the SBA has determined that it is not a small business.
(h) (h) If the SBA determines that the status of a concern as a small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small business has been misrepresented in order to obtain a set-aside contract, an 8(a) subcontract, a subcontract that is to be included as part or all of a goal contained in a subcontracting plan, or a prime or subcontract to be awarded as a result, or in furtherance of any other provision of Federal law that specifically references Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act for a definition of program eligibility, the SBA may take action as specified in Sections 16(a) or 16(d) of the Act. If the SBA declines to take action, the agency may initiate the process. The SBA’s regulations on penalties for misrepresentations and false statements are contained in 13 CFR 121.108 for small business, 13 CFR 124.501 for 8(a) small business, 13 CFR 128.600 for veteran or service-disabled veteran-owned small business, 13 CFR 126.900 for HUBZone small business, and 13 CFR 127.700 for economically disadvantaged women-owned small business concerns and women-owned small business (WOSB) concerns eligible under the WOSB Program.

