Heading: 19.705-6 Postaward responsibilities
of the contracting officer.
Text: (a) (a) Notify
the SBA of the award by sending a copy of the award document to
the Area Director, Office of Government Contracting, in the SBA
area office where the contract will be performed.
(b) (b) Forward
a copy of each commercial plan and any associated approvals to the
Area Director, Office of Government Contracting, in the SBA area
office where the contractor’s headquarters is located.
(c) (c) Give to
the SBA procurement center representative (or, if a procurement
center representative is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) a copy of-
(d) (d) Notify
the SBA procurement center representative (or, if a procurement
center representative is not assigned, see 19.402(a)) of the opportunity
to review subcontracting plans in connection with contract modifications.
(e) (e) Forward
a copy of each plan, or a determination that there is no requirement
for a subcontracting plan, to the cognizant contract administration
office.
(f) (f) Monitor
the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan,
to include the following:
(g) (g) Evaluate
the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan,
to include the following:
(h) (h)
                  Initiate action to assess
liquidated damages in accordance with 19.705-7 upon a recommendation
by the administrative contracting officer, if one is assigned, or
receipt of other reliable evidence to indicate that assessing liquidated
damages is warranted.
(i) (i)
                  
                  Take action to enforce
the terms of the contract upon receipt of a notice from the contract
administration office under 19.706(f).
(j) (j) Acknowledge
receipt of or reject the ISR and the SSR in the eSRS. Acknowledging
receipt does not mean acceptance or approval of the report. The
report shall be rejected if it is not adequately completed, for
instance, if there are errors, omissions, or incomplete data. Failure
to meet the goals of the subcontracting plan is not a valid reason
for rejecting the report.

