Heading: 19.704 Subcontracting plan
requirements.
Text: (a) (a) Each subcontracting plan required
under 19.301-2(e) and 19.702(a)(1)(i), (ii),
and (iii) shall include-
(b) (b) Contractors
may establish, on a plant or division-wide basis, a master plan
(see 19.701) that contains
all the elements required by the clause at 52.219-9, Small Business
Subcontracting Plan, except goals. Master plans shall be effective
for a 3-year period after approval by the contracting officer; however,
it is incumbent upon contractors to maintain and update master plans.
Changes required to update master plans are not effective until
approved by the contracting officer. A master plan, when incorporated
in an individual plan, shall apply to that contract throughout the
life of the contract.
(c) (c) For multiyear
contracts or contracts containing options, the cumulative value
of the basic contract and all options is considered in determining
whether a subcontracting plan is necessary. If a subcontracting
plan is necessary and the offeror is submitting an individual subcontracting
plan, the individual subcontracting plan shall contain all the elements
required by paragraph (a) of this section and shall contain separate
statements and goals based on total subcontract dollars for the basic
contract and for each option.
(d) (d) A commercial
plan (as defined in 19.701)
is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors furnishing commercial products and
commercial services. The subcontracting goals established for
a commercial plan shall include all indirect costs with the exception
of those such as the following: Employee salaries and benefits;
payments for petty cash; depreciation; interest; income taxes; property
taxes; lease payments; bank fees; fines, claims, and dues; original
equipment manufacturer relationships during warranty periods (negotiated
up front with the product); utilities and other services purchased
from a municipality or an entity solely authorized by the municipality
to provide those services in a particular geographical region; and
philanthropic contributions. Once a contractor's commercial plan
has been approved, the Government shall not require another subcontracting
plan from the same contractor while the plan remains in effect,
as long as the product or service being provided by the contractor
continues to meet the definition of a commercial product or commercial
service. The contractor shall—

