Heading: 19.705-7 Compliance
with the subcontracting plan.
Text: (a) (a)
General.
                   Maximum
practicable utilization of small business, veteran-owned small business,
service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and
women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors in Government
contracts is a matter of national interest with both social and
economic benefits. When a contractor fails to make a good faith
effort to comply with a subcontracting plan, these objectives are
not achieved, and 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F) directs
that liquidated damages shall be paid by the contractor.
(b) (b)
Determination
of good faith effort.
(c) (c)
Documentation of
good faith effort. If, at completion of the basic contract or
any option, or in the case of a commercial plan, at the close of
the fiscal year for which the plan is applicable, a contractor has
failed to comply with the requirements of its subcontracting plan,
which includes meeting its subcontracting goals, the contracting
officer shall review all available information for an indication
that the contractor has not made a good faith effort to comply with
the plan. If no such indication is found, the contracting officer
shall document the file accordingly.
(d) (d)
Notice of failure
to make a good faith effort. If the contracting officer decides
in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section that the contractor
failed to make a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting
plan, the contracting officer shall give the contractor written
notice in accordance with 52.219-16,
Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan, specifying the material
breach, which may be included in the contractor's past performance
information, advising the contractor of the possibility that the
contractor may have to pay to the Government liquidated damages,
and providing a period of 15 working days (or longer period as necessary)
within which to respond. The notice shall give the contractor an
opportunity to demonstrate what good faith efforts have been made
before the contracting officer issues the final decision and shall
further state that failure of the contractor to respond may be taken
as an admission that no valid explanation exists.
(e) (e)
Payment
of liquidated damages.
(f) (f)
Commercial
plans. 
                  With respect
to commercial plans approved under the clause at 52.219-9, Small Business
Subcontracting Plan, the contracting officer that approved the plan
shall-

