Heading: 19.705-4 Reviewing the subcontracting
plan.
Text: (a) (a) No
detailed standards apply to every subcontracting plan. Instead,
the contracting officer shall consider each plan in terms of the
circumstances of the particular acquisition, including-
(b) (b) If, under
a sealed bid solicitation, a bidder submits a plan that does not
cover each of the 15 required elements (see 19.704), the contracting
officer shall advise the bidder of the deficiency and request submission
of a revised plan by a specific date. If the bidder does not submit
a plan that incorporates the required elements within the time allotted,
the bidder shall be ineligible for award. If the plan, although
responsive, evidences the bidder’s intention not to comply with
its obligations under the clause at 52.219-8, Utilization
of Small Business Concerns, the contracting officer may find the
bidder nonresponsible.
(c) (c) In negotiated
acquisitions, the contracting officer shall determine whether the
plan is acceptable based on the negotiation of each of the 15 elements
of the plan (see 19.704). Subcontracting
goals should be set at a level that the parties reasonably expect
can result from the offeror expending good faith efforts to use
small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business subcontractors to the maximum practicable
extent. The contracting officer shall take particular care to ensure
that the offeror has not submitted unreasonably low goals to minimize
exposure to liquidated damages and to avoid the administrative burden
of substantiating good faith efforts. Additionally, particular attention
should be paid to the identification of steps that, if taken, would
be considered a good faith
effort (see 19.705-7). No goal
should be negotiated upward if it is apparent that a higher goal
will significantly increase the Government’s cost or seriously impede
the attainment of acquisition objectives. An incentive subcontracting
clause (see 52.219-10,
Incentive Subcontracting Program), may be used when additional and
unique contract effort, such as providing technical assistance,
could significantly increase subcontract awards to small business,
small disadvantaged business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled
veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned
small business concerns.
(d) (d) In determining
the acceptability of a proposed subcontracting plan, the contracting
officer should take the following actions:

