Heading: 22.1802 Policy.
Text: (a) (a) Statutes and Executive orders
require employers to abide by the immigration laws of the United
States and to employ in the United States only individuals who are
eligible to work in the United States. The E-Verify program provides
an Internet-based means of verifying employment eligibility of workers
employed in the United States, but is not a substitute for any other
employment eligibility verification requirements.
(b) (b) Contracting
officers shall include in solicitations and contracts, as prescribed
at 22.1803, requirements
that Federal contractors must-
(c) (c) Contractors
may elect to verify employment eligibility of all existing employees
working in the United States who were hired after November 6, 1986
(after November 27, 2009, in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands) instead of just those employees assigned to the contract.
The contractor is not required to verify employment eligibility
of-
(d) (d) In exceptional
cases, the head of the contracting activity may waive the E-Verify
requirement for a contract or subcontract or a class of contracts
or subcontracts, either temporarily or for the period of performance.
This waiver authority may not be delegated.
(e) (e)
                  DHS and the Social Security Administration (SSA) may terminate a contractor's memorandum of understanding (MOU) and deny access to the E-Verify system in accordance with the terms of the MOU. If DHS or SSA terminates a contractor's MOU, the terminating agency must refer the contractor to a suspending and debarring official for possible suspension or debarment action. During the period between termination of the MOU and a decision by the suspending and debarring official whether to suspend or debar, the contractor is excused from its obligations under paragraph (b) of the clause at 52.222-54. If the contractor is suspended, debarred, or subject to a voluntary exclusion as a result of the MOU termination, the contractor is not eligible to participate in E-Verify during the period of its suspension, debarment, or voluntary exclusion. If the contractor is not suspended, debarred, or subject to a voluntary exclusion, then the contractor must re-enroll in E-Verify.

