Heading: 28.203-1 Acceptability of individual
sureties.
Text: (a) (a)An individual surety is acceptable for all types of bonds except position schedule bonds. Assets pledged by an individual surety shall meet the eligibility requirements of Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Per 31 U.S.C. 9310, individual sureties must pledge eligible obligations, which Treasury refers to as acceptable collateral or eligible collateral. A list of acceptable assets, entitled “Acceptable Collateral for 31 CFR part 225,” may be accessed by going to 
                     https://www.treasurydirect.gov/​files/​laws-and-regulations/​collateral-programs/​2018-final-225-list-of-acceptable-collateral.pdf and clicking on “Acceptable Collateral for 31 CFR part 225”.
(b) (b)
(c) (c)Using the
information from the SF 28 submitted
by the offeror or contractor, the contracting officer shall notify
the Treasury's collateral operations support team by email at BMT@fiscal.treasury.gov or by phone
at 888-568-7343, of the individual surety, the assets to be pledged,
and the amount necessary to cover the individual surety bond, i.e.,
the required amount to be collateralized. Treasury will advise the
contracting officer whether the assets are eligible to be pledged,
consistent with 28.203-1(a), and of the
valuation of the assets offered to be pledged, consistent with the
valuation standards in 28.203-1(b)(2). If after
3 business days the contracting officer has not received a response
from Treasury, the contracting officer may seek assistance from
the Director, Bank Policy and Oversight, at 202-504-3502. The contracting
officer shall determine whether the individual surety bond is acceptable
as to the amount necessary to cover the individual surety bond based
on the asset eligibility and valuation assessment from Treasury.
The contracting officer shall notify both the offeror or contractor
and the individual surety of this determination.
(d) (d)If the contracting
officer determines the individual surety is acceptable, the contracting
officer shall request the Treasury's collateral operations support
team set up the necessary individual surety pledged asset collateral
account.
(e) (e)If the contracting
officer determines that no individual surety in support of a bid
guarantee is acceptable, the offeror utilizing the individual surety
shall be rejected as nonresponsible, except as provided in 28.101-4. A finding of
nonresponsibility based on unacceptability of an individual surety,
need not be referred to the Small Business Administration for a
Certificate of Competency. (See 19.602-1(a) and 61 Comp.
Gen. 456 (1982).)
(f) (f)If a contractor
submits an unacceptable individual surety, or one that Treasury
could not assess the asset eligibility and valuation within a reasonable
time, then the contracting officer may permit the contractor to
substitute an acceptable surety within a reasonable time.
(g) (g)Evidence
of possible criminal or fraudulent activities by an individual surety
shall be referred to the appropriate agency official in accordance
with agency procedures.

