Heading: 3.502-2 Subcontractor kickbacks.
Text: (a) (a) Prohibits
any person from-
(b) (b) Imposes
criminal penalties on any person who knowingly and willfully engages
in the prohibited conduct addressed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) (c) Provides
for the recovery of civil penalties by the United States from any
person who knowingly engages in such prohibited conduct and from
any person whose employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee
provides, accepts, or charges a kickback.
(d) (d) Provides
that-
(e) (e) Authorizes
contracting officers to order that sums withheld under paragraph
(d)(2) of this section be paid to the contracting agency, or if
the sum has already been offset against the prime contractor, that
it be retained by the prime contractor.
(f) (f) Requires
the prime contractor to notify the contracting officer when the
withholding under paragraph (d)(2) of this section has been accomplished
unless the amount withheld has been paid to the Government.
(g) (g) Requires
a prime contractor or subcontractor to report in writing to the
inspector general of the contracting agency, the head of the contracting
agency if the agency does not have an inspector general, or the
Attorney General any possible violation of the Kickbacks statute
when the prime contractor or subcontractor has reasonable grounds
to believe such violation may have occurred.
(h) (h) Provides
that, for the purpose of ascertaining whether there has been a violation
of the Kickbacks statute with respect to any prime contract, the
Government Accountability Office and the inspector general of the
contracting agency, or a representative of such contracting agency
designated by the head of the agency if the agency does not have
an inspector general, shall have access to and may inspect the facilities
and audit the books and records, including any electronic data or records,
of any prime contractor or subcontractor under a prime contract
awarded by such agency.
(i) (i)
                  Requires each contracting
agency to include in each prime contract, other than for commercial
products or commercial services, exceeding $150,000, a requirement
that the prime contractor shall–
(j) (j) Notwithstanding
paragraph (i) of this section, a prime contractor shall cooperate
fully with any Federal Government agency investigating a violation
of 41 U.S.C. 8702 (see 41 U.S.C. 8703(b)).

