Heading: 31.205-42 Termination costs.
Text: (a) (a)
Common items. The costs of items reasonably usable on the contractor’s other work shall not be allowable unless the contractor submits evidence that the items could not be retained at cost without sustaining a loss. The contracting officer should consider the contractor’s plans and orders for current and planned production when determining if items can reasonably be used on other work of the contractor. Contemporaneous purchases of common items by the contractor shall be regarded as evidence that such items are reasonably usable on the contractor’s other work. Any acceptance of common items as allocable to the terminated portion of the contract should be limited to the extent that the quantities of such items on hand, in transit, and on order are in excess of the reasonable quantitative requirements of other work.
(b) (b)
Costs continuing after termination. Despite all reasonable efforts by the contractor, costs which cannot be discontinued immediately after the effective date of termination are generally allowable. However, any costs continuing after the effective date of the termination due to the negligent or willful failure of the contractor to discontinue the costs shall be unallowable.
(c) (c)
Initial costs. Initial costs, including starting load and preparatory costs, are allowable as follows:
(d) (d)
Loss of useful value. Loss of useful value of special tooling, and special machinery and equipment is generally allowable, provided-
(e) (e)
Rental under unexpired leases. Rental costs under unexpired leases, less the residual value of such leases, are generally allowable when shown to have been reasonably necessary for the performance of the terminated contract, if-
(f) (f)
Alterations of leased property. The cost of alterations and reasonable restorations required by the lease may be allowed when the alterations were necessary for performing the contract.
(g) (g)
						            Settlement expenses.
(h) (h)
Subcontractor claims. Subcontractor claims, including the allocable portion of the claims common to the contract and to other work of the contractor, are generally allowable. An appropriate share of the contractor’s indirect expense may be allocated to the amount of settlements with subcontractors; provided, that the amount allocated is reasonably proportionate to the relative benefits received and is otherwise consistent with 31.201-4 and 31.203(d). The indirect expense so allocated shall exclude the same and similar costs claimed directly or indirectly as settlement expenses.

