Heading: 32.206 Solicitation provisions
and contract clauses.
Text: (a) (a) The contract shall contain the
paragraph entitled "Payment" of the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms
and Conditions-Commercial
Products and Commercial Services. If the contract will provide
for contract financing, the contracting officer shall construct
a solicitation provision and contract clause. This solicitation
provision shall be constructed in accordance with 32.204 or 32.205. If the procedure
at 32.205 is used, the solicitation
provision at 52.232-31,
invitation to Propose Financing Terms, shall be included. The contract
clause shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements
of this subpart and any agency regulations.
(b) (b) Each contract
financing clause shall include:
(c) (c) Computation
of amounts, and contractor entitlement provisions.
(d) (d)
Instructions
for multiple appropriations. If contract financing is to be
computed for the contract as a whole, and if there is more than
one appropriation account (or subaccount) funding payments under
the contract, the contracting officer shall include, in the contract,
instructions for distribution of financing payments to the respective
funds accounts. Distribution instructions and contract liquidation
instructions must be mutually consistent.
(e) (e)
Liquidation. Liquidation
of contract financing payments shall be on the same basis as the
computation of contract financing payments; that is, financing payments
computed on a whole contract basis shall be liquidated on a whole
contract basis; and a payment computed on a line item basis shall
be liquidated against that line item. If liquidation is on a whole contract
basis, the contracting officer shall use a uniform liquidation percentage
as the liquidation method, unless the contracting officer obtains
the concurrence of the cognizant payment office that the proposed
liquidation provisions can be executed by that office, or unless
agency regulations provide alternative liquidation methods.
(f) (f)
Prompt
payment for commercial purchase payments. The provisions of subpart  32.9, Prompt
Payment, apply to contract financing and invoice payments for commercial
purchases in the same manner they apply to other than commercial purchases.
The contracting officer is responsible for including in the contract
all the information necessary to implement prompt payment. In particular,
contracting officers must be careful to clearly differentiate in
the contract between contract financing and invoice payments and
between items having different prompt payment times.
(g) (g)
Installment
payment financing for commercial
products and commercial services. Contracting officers
may insert the clause at 52.232-30,
Installment Payments for Commercial
Products and Commercial Services, in solicitations and contracts
in lieu of constructing a specific clause in accordance with paragraphs
(b) through (e) of this section, if the contract action qualifies
under the criteria at 32.202-1(b)
and installment payments for the item are either customary or are
authorized in accordance with agency procedures.

