Heading: 32.304-2 Certificate of eligibility.
Text: (a) (a)
						            The contracting officer shall prepare the certificate of eligibility for a contract that the contracting officer deems to be of material consequence, when-
(b) (b)
						            The agency shall evaluate the relevant data, including the certificate of eligibility, the accompanying data, and any other relevant information on the contractor’s financial status and performance, to determine whether authorization of a loan guarantee would be in the Government’s interest.
(c) (c)
						            If the contractor has several major national defense contracts, it is normally not necessary to evaluate the eligibility of relatively minor contracts. The determination of eligibility should be processed, without delay, based on the preponderance of the amount of the contracts.
(d) (d)
						            The certificate of eligibility shall include the following determinations:
(e) (e)
						            The contracting officer shall consider the following factors in determining if a practicable alternate source exists:
(f) (f)
						            The contracting officer shall attach sufficient data to the certificate of eligibility to support the determinations made. Available pertinent information shall be included on-
(g) (g)
						            If the contracting officer determines that a certificate of eligibility is not justified, the facts and reasons supporting that conclusion shall be documented and furnished to the agency contract finance office.
(h) (h)
						            The guaranteeing agency shall review the proposed guarantee terms and conditions. If they are considered appropriate, the guaranteeing agency shall complete a standard form of authorization as prescribed by the Federal Reserve Board. The agency shall transmit the authorization through the Federal Reserve Board to the Federal Reserve Bank. The Bank is authorized to execute and deliver to the financing institution a standard form of guarantee agreement, with the terms and conditions approved for the particular case. The financing institution will then make the loan.
(i) (i)
						            Substantially the same procedure may be followed for the application of an offeror who is actively negotiating or bidding for a defense contract, except that the guarantee shall not be authorized until the contract has been executed.
(j) (j)
						            The contracting officer shall report to the agency contract finance office any information about the contractor that would have a potentially adverse impact on a pending guarantee application. The contracting officer is not required, however, to initiate any special investigation for this purpose.
(k) (k)
						            With regard to existing contracts, the agency shall not consider the percentage of guarantee requested by the financing institution in determining the contractor’s eligibility.

