Heading: 32.504 Subcontracts under prime
contracts providing progress payments.
Text: (a) (a) Subcontracts may include either
performance-based payments, provided they meet the criteria in 32.1003, or progress payments,
provided they meet the criteria in subpart  32.5 for
customary progress payments, but not both. Subcontracts for commercial
purchases may include commercial
product or commercial service purchase financing terms, provided they
meet the criteria in 32.202-1.
(b) (b) The contractor’s
requests for progress payments may include the full amount of commercial product or commercial service purchase
financing payments, performance-based payments, or progress payments
to a subcontractor, whether paid or unpaid, provided that unpaid
amounts are limited to amounts determined due and that the contractor
will pay-
(c) (c) If the
contractor is considering making unusual progress payments to a
subcontractor, the parties will be guided by the policies in 32.501-2. If the Government
approves unusual progress payments for the subcontract, the contracting
officer must issue a contract modification to specify the new rate
in paragraph (j)(6) of the clause at 52.232-16, Progress Payments, in
the prime contract. This will allow the contractor to include the
progress payments to the subcontractor in the cost basis for progress
payments by the Government. This modification is not a deviation
and does not require the clearance prescribed in 32.502-2(b).
(d) (d) The contractor
has a duty to ensure that financing payments to subcontractors conform
to the standards and principles prescribed in paragraph (j) of the
Progress Payments clause in the prime contract. Although the contracting
officer should, to the extent appropriate, review the subcontract
as part of the overall administration of progress payments in the
prime contract, there is no special requirement for contracting
officer review or consent merely because the subcontract includes financing
payments, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. However,
the contracting officer must ensure that the contractor has installed
the necessary management control systems, including internal audit
procedures.
(e) (e) When financing
payments are in the form of progress payments, the Progress Payments
clause at 52.232-16 requires that
the subcontract include the substance of the Progress Payments clause
in the prime contract, modified to indicate that the contractor,
not the Government, awards the subcontract and administers the progress
payments. The following exceptions apply to wording modifications:
(f) (f) When financing
payments are in the form of performance-based payments, the Performance-Based
Payments clause at 52.232-32 requires
that the subcontract terms include the substance of the Performance-Based
Payments clause, modified to indicate that the contractor, not the
Government, awards the subcontract and administers the performance-based payments,
and include appropriately worded modifications similar to those
noted in paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) (g) When financing
payments are in the form of commercial
product or commercial service purchase financing, the subcontract
must include a contract financing clause structured in accordance
with 32.206.

