Heading: 39.101 Policy.
Text: (a) (a)
(b) (b)
                  
                  
                   Agencies
must follow OMB Circular A-127, Financial Management Systems, when
acquiring financial management systems. Agencies may acquire only
core financial management software certified by the Joint Financial
Management Improvement Program.
(c) (c)
                  
                  
                   In acquiring
information technology, agencies shall include the appropriate information
technology security policies and requirements, including use of
common security configurations available from the National Institute
of Standards and Technology’s website at http://checklists.nist.gov. Agency
contracting officers should consult with the requiring official to
ensure the appropriate standards are incorporated.
(d) (d)
                  
                  
                   When acquiring
information technology using Internet Protocol, agencies must include
the appropriate Internet Protocol compliance requirements in accordance
with 11.002(g).
(e) (e)
                  
                  
                   Contracting
officers shall not purchase any hardware, software, or services
developed or provided by Kaspersky Lab that the Government will
use on or after October 1, 2018. (See 4.2002.)
(f) (f)
(g) (g)
                  
                   See
                  the prohibition in 4.2202 on the presence or
                  use of a covered application
                  (“TikTok”).
(h) (h)
                   Executive agencies are prohibited from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to procure or obtain, any covered article, or any products or services produced or provided by a source, including contractor use of covered articles or sources, if prohibited from doing so by an applicable FASCSA order issued by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, or Secretary of Homeland Security (see 4.2303).
(i) (i) Executive agencies must comply with the prohibitions on unmanned aircraft systems (e.g., drones) in accordance with 40.202.

