Heading: 42.1502 Policy.
Text: (a) (a) General. Past performance evaluations
shall be prepared at least annually and at the time the work under
a contract or order is completed. Past performance evaluations are
required for contracts and orders as specified in paragraphs (b)
through (f) of this section, including contracts and orders performed
outside the United States. These evaluations are generally for the
entity, division, or unit that performed the contract or order.
Past performance information shall be entered into CPARS, the Governmentwide
evaluation reporting tool for all past performance reports on contracts
and orders. Instructions for submitting evaluations into CPARS are
available at http://www.cpars.gov/.
(b) (b) Contracts.
Except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f), and (h) of this section,
agencies shall prepare evaluations of contractor performance for
each contract (as defined in FAR part  2)
that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold and for each order
that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold. Agencies are
required to prepare an evaluation if a modification to the contract
causes the dollar amount to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
(c) (c) Orders
under multiple-agency contracts. Agencies shall prepare an evaluation
of contractor performance for each order that exceeds the simplified
acquisition threshold that is placed under a Federal Supply Schedule
contract or placed under a task-order contract or a delivery-order
contract awarded by another agency (i.e., Governmentwide acquisition
contract or multi-agency contract). Agencies placing orders under
their own multiple-agency contract shall also prepare evaluations
for their own orders. This evaluation shall not consider the requirements
under paragraph (g) of this section. Agencies are required to prepare
an evaluation if a modification to the order causes the dollar amount
to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
(d) (d) Orders
under single-agency contracts. For single-agency task-order and
delivery-order contracts, the contracting officer may require performance
evaluations for each order in excess of the simplified acquisition
threshold when such evaluations would produce more useful past performance
information for source selection officials than that contained in
the overall contract evaluation (e.g., when the scope of the basic
contract is very broad and the nature of individual orders could
be significantly different). This evaluation need not consider the
requirements under paragraph (g) of this section unless the contracting
officer deems it appropriate.
(e) (e) Past performance
evaluations shall be prepared for each construction contract of
$750,000 or more, and for each construction contract terminated
for default regardless of contract value. Past performance evaluations
may also be prepared for construction contracts below $750,000.
(f) (f) Past performance
evaluations shall be prepared for each architect-engineer services
contract of $35,000 or more, and for each architect-engineer services
contract that is terminated for default regardless of contract value.
Past performance evaluations may also be prepared for architect-engineer
services contracts below $35,000.
(g) (g) Past performance
evaluations shall include an assessment of the contractor's-
(h) (h) Agencies
shall not evaluate performance for contracts awarded under subpart  8.7.
(i) (i) Agencies
shall promptly report other contractor information in accordance
with 42.1503(h).

