Heading: 48.102 Policies.
Text: (a) (a)
						            As required by 41 U.S.C. 1711, agencies shall establish and maintain cost-effective value engineering procedures and processes. Agencies shall provide contractors a substantial financial incentive to develop and submit VECP’s. Contracting activities will include value engineering provisions in appropriate supply, service, architect-engineer and construction contracts as prescribed by 48.201 and 48.202 except where exemptions are granted on a case-by-case basis, or for specific classes of contracts, by the agency head.
(b) (b)
						            Agencies shall-
(c) (c)
						            Agencies shall consider requiring incorporation of value engineering clauses in appropriate subcontracts.
(d) (d)
(e) (e) Value engineering incentive payments do not constitute profit or fee within the limitations imposed by 
                     10 U.S.C. 3322(b)
                     
                   and 41 U.S.C.3905 (see 15.404-4(c)(4)(i)).
(f) (f)
						            Generally, profit or fee on the instant contract should not be adjusted downward as a result of acceptance of a VECP. Profit or fee shall be excluded when calculating instant or future contract savings.
(g) (g)
						            The contracting officer determines the sharing periods and sharing rates on a case-by-case basis using the guidelines in 48.104-1 and 48.104-2, respectively. In establishing a sharing period and sharing rate, the contracting officer must consider the following, as appropriate, and must insert supporting rationale in the contract file:
(h) (h)
						            Contracts for architect-engineer services must require a mandatory value engineering program to reduce total ownership cost in accordance with 48.101(b)(2). However, there must be no sharing of value engineering savings in contracts for architect-engineer services.
(i) (i)
						            Agencies shall establish procedures for funding and payment of the contractor’s share of collateral savings and future contract savings.

