Heading: 49.108-4 Authorization for subcontract settlements without approval or ratification.
Text: (a) (a)
(b) (b)
						            Section 45.602 shall apply to disposal of completed end items allocable to the terminated subcontract. However, these items may be disposed of without review by the TCO under 49.108-3 and without screening under 45.602-3, if the items do not require demilitarization and the total amount (at the subcontract price) when added to the amount of the settlement does not exceed the amount authorized under this subsection.
(c) (c)
						            A TCO granting the authorization in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall periodically (at least annually) make a selective review of settlements and settlement procedures to determine if the contractor is making adequate reviews and fair settlements, and whether the authorization should remain in effect. The TCO shall obtain the advice and recommendations of the appropriate audit agency and the cognizant plant clearance officer. When it is determined that the contractor’s procedures are not adequate, or that improper settlements are being made, or when the authority has not been used in the preceding 2 years, the TCO shall revoke the authorization by written notice to the contractor, effective on the date of receipt.
(d) (d)
						            The contractor may make any number of separate settlements with a single subcontractor but shall not divide settlement proposals solely to bring them under an authorization limit. Separate settlement proposals that would normally be included in a single proposal, such as those based on a series of separate orders for the same item under one contract, shall be consolidated whenever possible.
(e) (e)
						            Upon written request of the contractor, the TCO may increase an authorization granted under paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection to authorize the contractor to conclude settlements under a particular prime contract. The TCO may limit the increased authorization to specific subcontracts or classes of subcontracts.
(f) (f)
						            Authorizations granted	under this 49.108-4 shall	not authorize the settlement of requisitions or orders placed with any unit	within the contractor’s corporate entity.
(g) (g)
						            Recommended formats for a request to settle subcontractor settlement proposals and the TCO’s letter of authorization to the contractor are in 49.605 and 49.606, respectively.

