Heading: 5.205 Special situations.
Text: (a) (a)
Research and development (R&D)
advance notices. Contracting officers may transmit to the GPE
advance notices of their interest in potential R&D programs
whenever market research does not produce a sufficient number of
concerns to obtain adequate competition. Advance notices must not
be used where security considerations prohibit such publication. Advance
notices will enable potential sources to learn of R&D programs
and provide these sources with an opportunity to submit information
which will permit evaluation of their capabilities. Contracting
officers must consider potential sources which respond to advance
notices for a subsequent solicitation. Advanced notices must be
entitled "Research and Development Sources Sought" and include the
name and telephone number of the contracting officer or other contracting activity
official from whom technical details of the project can be obtained.
This will enable sources to submit information for evaluation of
their R&D capabilities. Contracting officers must synopsize
(see 5.201) all subsequent
solicitations for R&D contracts, including those resulting from
a previously synopsized advance notice, unless one of the exceptions
in 5.202 applies.
(b) (b)
Federally
Funded Research and Development Centers. Before establishing
a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) (see part  35) or before
changing its basic purpose and mission, the sponsor must transmit
at least three notices over a 90-day period to the GPE and the Federal
Register, indicating the agency’s intention to sponsor an FFRDC
or change the basic purpose and mission of an FFRDC. The notice
must indicate the scope and nature of the effort to be performed
and request comments. Notice is not required where the action is
required by law.
(c) (c)
Special
notices. Contracting officers may transmit to the GPE special
notices of procurement matters such as business fairs, long-range
procurement estimates, prebid or preproposal conferences, meetings,
and the availability of draft solicitations or draft specifications
for review.
(d) (d)
Architect-engineering
services. Contracting officers must publish notices of intent
to contract for architect-engineering services as follows:
(e) (e)
                   Public-private
competitions under OMB Circular A-76.
(f) (f)
Section8(a)
competitive acquisition. When a requirement is being
considered for competitive acquisition limited to eligible 8(a)
participants under subpart  19.8,
the contracting officer must transmit a synopsis of the proposed
contract action to the GPE. The synopsis may be transmitted to the
GPE concurrent with submission of the agency offering (see 19.804-2) to the Small
Business Administration (SBA). The synopsis should also include
information-
(g) (g)
Notifications
to the public regarding
consolidation, bundling, or substantial bundling.
(h) (h)
Notice
                        regarding timely definitization of equitable adjustments
                        for change orders under construction contracts. When
                     the contracting officer anticipates award of a contract to
                     a small business pursuant to a solicitation for
                     construction, the contracting officer must transmit in the
                     solicitation notice on the GPE information regarding
                     definitization of equitable adjustments for change orders
                     under construction contracts (see 36.211).

