Heading: 52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer-System for Award Management.
Text: (a) (a)
						            Method of payment.
(b) (b)
Contractor's EFT information. The Government shall make payment to the Contractor using the EFT information contained in the System for Award Management (SAM). In the event that the EFT information changes, the Contractor shall be responsible for providing the updated information to SAM.
(c) (c)
Mechanisms for EFT payment. The Government may make payment by EFT through either the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, subject to the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, or the Fedwire Transfer System. The rules governing Federal payments through the ACH are contained in 31 CFR Part 210.
(d) (d)
Suspension of payment. If the Contractor’s EFT information in the SAM is incorrect, then the Government need not make payment to the Contractor under this contract until correct EFT information is entered into the SAM; and any invoice or contract financing request shall be deemed not to be a proper invoice for the purpose of prompt payment under this contract. The prompt payment terms of the contract regarding notice of an improper invoice and delays in accrual of interest penalties apply.
(e) (e)
						            Liability for uncompleted or erroneous transfers.
(f) (f)
EFT and prompt payment. A payment shall be deemed to have been made in a timely manner in accordance with the prompt payment terms of this contract if, in the EFT payment transaction instruction released to the Federal Reserve System, the date specified for settlement of the payment is on or before the prompt payment due date, provided the specified payment date is a valid date under the rules of the Federal Reserve System.
(g) (g)
EFT and assignment of claims. If the Contractor assigns the proceeds of this contract as provided for in the assignment of claims terms of this contract, the Contractor shall require as a condition of any such assignment, that the assignee shall register separately in SAM and shall be paid by EFT in accordance with the terms of this clause. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this contract, payment to an ultimate recipient other than the Contractor, or a financial institution properly recognized under an assignment of claims pursuant to subpart  32.8, is not permitted. In all respects, the requirements of this clause shall apply to the assignee as if it were the Contractor. EFT information that shows the ultimate recipient of the transfer to be other than the Contractor, in the absence of a proper assignment of claims acceptable to the Government, is incorrect EFT information within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this clause.
(h) (h)
Liability for change of EFT information by financial agent. The Government is not liable for errors resulting from changes to EFT information made by the Contractor’s financial agent.
(i) (i)
Payment information. The payment or disbursing office shall forward to the Contractor available payment information that is suitable for transmission as of the date of release of the EFT instruction to the Federal Reserve System. The Government may request the Contractor to designate a desired format and method(s) for delivery of payment information from a list of formats and methods the payment office is capable of executing. However, the Government does not guarantee that any particular format or method of delivery is available at any particular payment office and retains the latitude to use the format and delivery method most convenient to the Government. If the Government makes payment by check in accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, the Government shall mail the payment information to the remittance address contained in SAM.

