Heading: 52.216-16 Incentive Price Revision-Firm
Target.
Text: (a) (a)
General.
The supplies or services identified in the Schedule as Items _______
[Contracting Officer insert Schedule line item numbers] are
subject to price revision in accordance with this clause; provided,
that in no event shall the total final price of these items exceed
the ceiling price of ________ dollars ($_____).
Any supplies or services that are to be (1) ordered separately under,
or otherwise added to, this
(b) (b)
Definition.
"Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance
with part  31 of the Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract.
(c) (c) Data
submission.
(d) (d)
Price
revision. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the data
required by paragraph (c) of this clause, the Contracting Officer
and the Contractor shall promptly establish the total final price
of the items specified in (a) of this clause by applying to final
negotiated cost an adjustment for profit or loss, as follows:
(e) (e)
Contract
modification. The total final price of the items specified in
paragraph (a) of this clause shall be evidenced by a modification
to this contract, signed by the Contractor and the Contracting Officer.
This price shall not be subject to revision, notwithstanding any
changes in the cost of performing the contract, except to the extent
that-
(f) (f) Adjusting
billing prices.
(g) (g)
Quarterly
limitation on payments statement. This paragraph (g) shall apply
until final price revision under this contract has been completed.
(h) (h)
Subcontracts.
No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment
on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis.
(i) (i)
Disagreements.
If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon
the total final price within 60 days (or within such other period
as the Contracting Officer may specify) after the date on which
the data required by paragraph (c) of this clause are to be submitted,
the Contracting Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance
with the Disputes clause.
(j) (j)
Termination.
If this contract is terminated before the total final price is established,
prices of supplies or services subject to price revision shall be
established in accordance with this clause for (1) completed supplies
and services accepted by the Government and (2) those supplies and
services not terminated under a partial termination. All other elements
of the termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable
clauses of this contract.
(k) (k)
Equitable
adjustment under other clauses. If an equitable adjustment in
the contract price is made under any other clause of this contract
before the total final price is established, the adjustment shall
be made in the total target cost and may be made in the maximum
dollar limit on the total final price, the total target profit,
or both. If the adjustment is made after the total final price is
established, only the total final price shall be adjusted.
(l) (l)
Exclusion
from target price and total final price. If any clause of this
contract provides that the contract price does not or will not include
an amount for a specific purpose, then neither any target price
nor the total final price includes or will include any amount for
that purpose.
(m) (m)
Separate
reimbursement. If any clause of this contract expressly provides
that the cost of performance of an obligation shall be at Government
expense, that expense shall not be included in any target price
or in the total final price, but shall be reimbursed separately.
(n) (n)
Taxes.
As used in the Federal, State, and Local Taxes clause or in any
other clause that provides for certain taxes or duties to be included
in, or excluded from, the contract price, the term "contract price"
includes the total target price or, if it has been established,
the total final price. When any of these clauses requires that the
contract price be increased or decreased as a result of changes
in the obligation of the Contractor to pay or bear the burden of
certain taxes or duties, the increase or decrease shall be made
in the total target price or, if it has been established, in the
total final price, so that it will not affect the Contractor’s profit
or loss on this contract.

