Heading: 52.225-19 Contractor Personnel in a Designated Operational Area or Supporting a Diplomatic or Consular Mission Outside the United States.
Text: (a) (a)
Definitions. As used in this clause-
(b) (b)
General.
(c) (c)
Support. Unless specified elsewhere in the contract, the Contractor is responsible for all logistical and security support required for Contractor personnel engaged in this contract.
(d) (d)
Compliance with laws and regulations. The Contractor shall comply with, and shall ensure that its personnel in the designated operational area or supporting the diplomatic or consular mission are familiar with and comply with, all applicable-
(e) (e)
Preliminary personnel requirements.
(f) (f)
Processing and departure points. The Contractor shall require its personnel who are arriving from outside the area of performance to perform in the designated operational area or supporting the diplomatic or consular mission to-
(g) (g)
Personnel data.
(h) (h)
Contractor personnel. The Contracting Officer may direct the Contractor, at its own expense, to remove and replace any Contractor personnel who fail to comply with or violate applicable requirements of this contract. Such action may be taken at the Government’s discretion without prejudice to its rights under any other provision of this contract, including termination for default or cause.
(i) (i)
Weapons.
(j) (j)
Vehicle or equipment licenses. Contractor personnel shall possess the required licenses to operate all vehicles or equipment necessary to perform the contract in the area of performance.
(k) (k)
Military clothing and protective equipment.
(l) (l)
Evacuation.
(m) (m)
Personnel recovery.
(n) (n)
Notification and return of personal effects.
(o) (o)
Mortuary affairs. Mortuary affairs for Contractor personnel who die in the area of performance will be handled as follows:
(p) (p)
Changes. In addition to the changes otherwise authorized by the Changes clause of this contract, the Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order identified as a change order, make changes in place of performance or Government-furnished facilities, equipment, material, services, or site. Any change order issued in accordance with this paragraph shall be subject to the provisions of the Changes clause of this contract.
(q) (q)
Subcontracts. The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (q), in all subcontracts that require subcontractor personnel to perform outside the United States-

