Heading: 52.232-32 Performance-Based Payments.
Text: (a) (a)
Amount of payments and limitations on payments. Subject to such other limitations and conditions as are specified in this contract and this clause, the amount of payments and limitations on payments shall be specified in the contract’s description of the basis for payment.
(b) (b)
Contractor request for performance-based payment. The Contractor may submit requests for payment of performance-based payments not more frequently than monthly, in a form and manner acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer, all performance-based payments in any period for which payment is being requested shall be included in a single request, appropriately itemized and totaled. The Contractor’s request shall contain the information and certification detailed in paragraphs (l) and (m) of this clause.
(c) (c)
						            Approval and payment of requests.
(d) (d)
						            Liquidation of performance-based payments.
(e) (e)
Reduction or suspension of performance-based payments. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend performance-based payments, liquidate performance-based payments by deduction from any payment under the contract, or take a combination of these actions after finding upon substantial evidence any of the following conditions:
(f) (f)
						            Title.
(g) (g)
Risk of loss. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government, the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for property, the title to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the extent the Government expressly assumes the risk. If any property is lost (see 45.101), the basis of payment (the events or performance criteria) to which the property is related shall be deemed to be not in compliance with the terms of the contract and not payable (if the property is part of or needed for performance), and the Contractor shall refund the related performance-based payments in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause.
(h) (h)
Records and controls. The Contractor shall maintain records and controls adequate for administration of this clause. The Contractor shall have no entitlement to performance-based payments during any time the Contractor’s records or controls are determined by the Contracting Officer to be inadequate for administration of this clause.
(i) (i)
Reports and Government access. The Contractor shall promptly furnish reports, certificates, financial statements, and other pertinent information requested by the Contracting Officer for the administration of this clause and to determine that an event or other criterion prompting a financing payment has been successfully accomplished. The Contractor shall give the Government reasonable opportunity to examine and verify the Contractor’s records and to examine and verify the Contractor’s performance of this contract for administration of this clause.
(j) (j)
Special terms regarding default. If this contract is terminated under the Default clause, (1) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated performance-based payments, and (2) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of all performance-based payments, for all property for which the Government elects not to require delivery under the Default clause of this contract. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default clause.
(k) (k)
						            Reservation of rights.
(l) (l)
Content of Contractor’s request for performance-based payment. The Contractor’s request for performance-based payment shall contain the following:
(m) (m)
Content of Contractor's certification. As required in paragraph (l)(5) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the following certification in each request for performance-based payment:

