Heading: 52.232-30 
         Installment Payments for
Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
Text: (a) (a)
Contractor
entitlement to financing payments. The Contractor may request,
and the Government shall pay, a contract financing installment payment
as specified in this contract when: the payment requested is properly
due in accordance with this contract; the supplies deliverable or
services due under the contract will be delivered or performed in
accordance with the contract; and there has been no impairment or
diminution of the Government’s security under this contract.
(b) (b)
Computation
of amounts. Installment payment financing shall be paid to the
Contractor when requested for each separately priced unit of supply
(but not for services) of each line item in amounts approved by
the Contracting Officer pursuant to this clause.
(c) (c)
Contractor
request for installment payment. The Contractor may submit requests
for payment of installment payments not more frequently than monthly,
in a form and manner acceptable to the Contracting Officer. Unless
otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer, all installment
payments in any month for which payment is being requested shall
be included in a single request, appropriately itemized and totaled.
(d) (d)
Dates
for payment. An installment payment under this clause is a contract
financing payment under the Prompt Payment clause of this contract,
and except as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, approved
requests shall be paid within 30 days of submittal of a proper request
for payment.
(e) (e)
Liquidation
of installment payments. Installment payments shall be liquidated
by deducting from the delivery payment of each item the total unliquidated
amount of installment payments made for that separately priced unit
of that line item. The liquidation amounts for each unit of each
line item shall be clearly delineated in each request for delivery
payment submitted by the Contractor.
(f) (f)
Security
for installment payment financing. In the event the Contractor
fails to provide adequate security as required in this contract,
no financing payment shall be made under this contract. Upon receipt
of adequate security, financing payments shall be made, including
all previous payments to which the Contractor is entitled, in accordance
with the terms of the contract. If at any time the Contracting Officer
determines that the security provided by the Contractor is insufficient, the
Contractor shall promptly provide such additional security as the
Contracting Officer determines necessary. In the event the Contractor
fails to provide such additional security, the Contracting Officer
may collect or liquidate such security that has been provided, and
suspend further payments to the Contractor; the Contractor shall
repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated financing payments
as the Contracting Officer at his sole discretion deems repayable.
(g) (g)
Special
terms regarding termination for cause. If this contract is terminated
for cause, the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government
the amount of unliquidated installment payments. The Government
shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Termination
for Cause paragraph of the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.212-4, Contract Terms
and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
(h) (h) Reservation
of rights.
(i) (i)
Content
of Contractor's request for installment payment. The Contractor’s
request for installment payment shall contain the following:

