Heading: 52.212-4 
         Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products
and Commercial Services.
Text: (a) (a)
Inspection/Acceptance.
The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that
conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves
the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have
been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair
or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming
services at no increase in contract price. If repair/replacement
or reperformance will not correct the defects or is not possible,
the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate
consideration for acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services.
The Government must exercise its post-acceptance rights-
(b) (b)
Assignment.
The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive
payment due as a result of performance of this contract to a bank,
trust company, or other financing institution, including any Federal
lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3727).
However, when a third party makes payment (e.g., use of the
Governmentwide commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not
assign its rights to receive payment under this contract.
(c) (c)
Changes.
Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made
only by written agreement of the parties.
(d) (d)
Disputes.
This contract is subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 71,
Contract Disputes. Failure of the parties to this contract to reach
agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal
or action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a
dispute to be resolved in accordance with the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 
                  52.233-1, Disputes, which
is incorporated herein by reference. The Contractor shall proceed
diligently with performance of this contract, pending final resolution
of any dispute arising under the contract.
(e) (e)
Definitions.
The clause at FAR 52.202-1,
Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.
(f) (f)
Excusable
delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance
is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the
Contractor and without its fault or negligence such as, acts of
God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign
or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions,
strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.
The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as
soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any
excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection
therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch,
and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer
of the cessation of such occurrence.
(g) (g) Invoice.
(h) (h)
Patent
indemnity. The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and
its officers, employees and agents against liability, including
costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement
of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent,
trademark or copyright, arising out of the performance of this contract,
provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims and
proceedings.
(i) (i) Payment.-
(j) (j)
Risk
of loss. Unless the contract specifically provides otherwise,
risk of loss or damage to the supplies provided under this contract
shall remain with the Contractor until, and shall pass to the Government
upon:
(k) (k)
Taxes.
The contract price includes all applicable Federal, State, and local
taxes and duties.
(l) (l)
Termination
for the Government’s convenience. The Government reserves the
right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole
convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall
immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause
any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject
to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage
of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior
to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges the Contractor
can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government using its
standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination.
The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting
standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph
does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s
records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed
or costs incurred which reasonably could have been avoided.
(m) (m)
Termination
for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any
part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor,
or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and
conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with
adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination
for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor
for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall
be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies
provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly
terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be
deemed a termination for convenience.
(n) (n)
Title.
Unless specified elsewhere in this contract, title to items furnished
under this contract shall pass to the Government upon acceptance,
regardless of when or where the Government takes physical possession.
(o) (o)
Warranty.
The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder
are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described
in this contract.
(p) (p)
Limitation
of liability. Except as otherwise provided by an express warranty,
the Contractor will not be liable to the Government for consequential
damages resulting from any defect or deficiencies in accepted items.
(q) (q)
Other
compliances. The Contractor shall comply with all applicable
Federal, State and local laws, executive orders, rules and regulations
applicable to its performance under this contract.
(r) (r)
Compliance
                  with laws unique to Government contracts. The Contractor
                  agrees to comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352 relating to limitations
                  on the use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal
                  contracts; 18 U.S.C. 431 relating to officials not to benefit;
                  40 U.S.C. chapter 37, Contract Work Hours and Safety
                  Standards; 41 U.S.C. chapter 87, Kickbacks; 49 U.S.C. 40118,
                  Fly American; and 41 U.S.C. chapter 21 relating to procurement
                  integrity.
(s) (s)
Order
of precedence. Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract
shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:
(t) (t) [Reserved]
(u) (u) Unauthorized
Obligations.
(v) (v) Incorporation
by reference. The Contractor’s representations and certifications,
including those completed electronically via the System for Award
Management (SAM), are incorporated by reference into the contract.

