Heading: 52.216-6 Price Redetermination-Retroactive.
Text: (a) (a)
General.
The unit price and the total price stated in this contract shall
be redetermined in accordance with this clause, but in no event
shall the total amount paid under this contract exceed __________
[insert dollar amount of ceiling price].
(b) (b)
Definition.
"Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance
with part  31 of the Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract.
(c) (c) Data
submission.
(d) (d)
Price
determination. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the
data required by paragraph (c) of this section, the Contracting
Officer and the Contractor shall promptly negotiate to redetermine
fair and reasonable prices for supplies delivered and services performed
by the Contractor under this contract.
(e) (e)
Contract
modification. The negotiated redetermination of price shall
be evidenced by a modification to this contract, signed by the Contractor
and the Contracting Officer.
(f) (f)
Adjusting
billing prices. Pending execution of the contract modification
(see paragraph (e) of this section), the Contractor shall submit
invoices or vouchers in accordance with billing prices stated in
this contract. If at any time it appears that the then-current billing
prices will be substantially greater than the estimated final prices,
or if the Contractor submits data showing that the redetermined
prices will be substantially greater than the current billing prices,
the parties shall negotiate an appropriate decrease or increase
in billing prices. Any billing price adjustment shall be reflected
in a contract modification and shall not affect the redetermination
of prices under this clause. After the contract modification for
price redetermination is executed, the total amount paid or to be
paid on all invoices or vouchers shall be adjusted to reflect the agreed-upon
prices, and any resulting additional payments, refunds, or credits
shall be made promptly.
(g) (g)
Quarterly
limitation on payments statement. This paragraph (g) shall apply
until final price redetermination under this contract has been completed.
(h) (h)
Subcontracts.
No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment
on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis.
(i) (i)
Disagreements.
If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon
redetermined prices within 60 days (or within such other period
as the parties agree) after the date on which the data required
by paragraph (c) of this section are to be submitted, the Contracting
Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance with the Disputes
clause. For the purpose of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this
section, and pending final settlement of the disagreement on appeal,
by failure to appeal, or by agreement, this decision shall be treated
as an executed contract modification.
(j) (j)
Termination.
If this contract is terminated before price redetermination, prices
shall be established in accordance with this clause for completed
supplies and services not terminated. All other elements of the
termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable
clauses of this contract.

