Heading: 52.223-3 Hazardous Material
Identification and Material Safety Data.
Text: (a) (a) "Hazardous
material," as used in this clause, includes any material defined
as hazardous under the latest version of Federal Standard No.313
(including revisions adopted during the term of the contract).
(b) (b) The offeror
must list any hazardous material, as defined in paragraph (a) of
this clause, to be delivered under this contract. The hazardous
material shall be properly identified and include any applicable
identification number, such as National Stock Number or Special
Item Number. This information shall also be included on the Material
Safety Data Sheet submitted under this contract.
(c) (c) This list
must be updated during performance of the contract whenever the
Contractor determines that any other material to be delivered under
this contract is hazardous.
(d) (d) The apparently
successful offeror agrees to submit, for each item as required prior
to award, a Material Safety Data Sheet, meeting the requirements
of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and the latest version of Federal Standard
No.313, for all hazardous material identified in paragraph (b) of
this clause. Data shall be submitted in accordance with Federal
Standard No.313, whether or not the apparently successful offeror
is the actual manufacturer of these items. Failure to submit the Material
Safety Data Sheet prior to award may result in the apparently successful
offeror being considered nonresponsible and ineligible for award.
(e) (e) If, after
award, there is a change in the composition of the item(s) or a
revision to Federal Standard No.313, which renders incomplete or
inaccurate the data submitted under paragraph (d) of this clause,
the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer and
resubmit the data.
(f) (f) Neither
the requirements of this clause nor any act or failure to act by
the Government shall relieve the Contractor of any responsibility
or liability for the safety of Government, Contractor, or subcontractor
personnel or property.
(g) (g) Nothing
contained in this clause shall relieve the Contractor from complying
with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, codes, ordinances,
and regulations (including the obtaining of licenses and permits)
in connection with hazardous material.
(h) (h) The Government’s
rights in data furnished under this contract with respect to hazardous
material are as follows:

