Heading: 52.216-5 Price Redetermination-Prospective.
Text: (a) (a)
General.
The unit prices and the total price stated in this contract shall
be periodically redetermined in accordance with this clause, except
that-
(b) (b)
Definition.
"Costs," as used in this clause, means allowable costs in accordance
with part  31 of the Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in effect on the date of this contract.
(c) (c)
Price
redetermination periods. For the purpose of price redetermination,
performance of this contract is divided into successive periods.
The first period shall extend from the date of the contract to ________,
(see Note(1)) and the second and each succeeding period shall extend
for ________
[insert appropriate number] months from the end of
the last preceding period, except that the parties may agree to
vary the length of the final period. The first day of the second
and each succeeding period shall be the effective date of price
redetermination for that period.
(d) (d) Data
submission.
(e) (e)
Price
redetermination. Upon the Contracting Officer’s receipt of the
data required by paragraph (d) of this section, the Contracting
Officer and the Contractor shall promptly negotiate to redetermine
fair and reasonable prices for supplies that may be delivered or
services that may be performed in the period following the effective
date of price redetermination.
(f) (f)
Contract
modifications. Each negotiated redetermination of prices shall
be evidenced by a modification to this contract, signed by the Contractor
and the Contracting Officer, stating the redetermined prices that
apply during the redetermination period.
(g) (g)
Adjusting
billing prices. Pending execution of the contract modification
(see paragraph (f) of this section), the Contractor shall submit
invoices or vouchers in accordance with the billing prices stated
in this contract. If at any time it appears that the then-current
billing prices will be substantially greater than the estimated
final prices, or if the Contractor submits data showing that the
redetermined price will be substantially greater than the current
billing prices, the parties shall negotiate an appropriate decrease
or increase in billing prices. Any billing price adjustment shall
be reflected in a contract modification and shall not affect the
redetermination of prices under this clause. After the contract
modification for price redetermination is executed, the total amount
paid or to be paid on all invoices or vouchers shall be adjusted
to reflect the agreed-upon prices, and any requested additional
payments, refunds, or credits shall be made promptly.
(h) (h)
Quarterly
limitation on payments statement. This paragraph (h) applies
only during periods for which firm prices have not been established.
(i) (i)
Subcontracts.
No subcontract placed under this contract may provide for payment
on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost- basis.
(j) (j)
Disagreements.
If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree upon
redetermined prices for any price redetermination period within
60 days (or within such other period as the parties agree) after
the date on which the data required by paragraph (d) of this section
are to be submitted, the Contracting Officer shall promptly issue
a decision in accordance with the Disputes clause. For the purpose
of paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, and pending final
settlement of the disagreement on appeal, by failure to appeal,
or by agreement, this decision shall be treated as an executed contract modification.
Pending final settlement, price redetermination for subsequent periods,
if any, shall continue to be negotiated as provided in this clause.
(k) (k)
Termination.
If this contract is terminated, prices shall continue to be established
in accordance with this clause for (1) completed supplies and services
accepted by the Government and (2) those supplies and services not
terminated under a partial termination. All other elements of the
termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable
clauses of this contract.

