Heading: 52.246-8 Inspection of Research and Development-Cost-Reimbursement.
Text: (a) (a)
						            Definitions.As used in this clause—
(b) (b)
						            The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the work under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires.
(c) (c)
						            The Government has the right to inspect and test all work called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect the plant or plants of the Contractor or its subcontractors engaged in the contract performance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work.
(d) (d)
						            If the Government performs any inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties.
(e) (e)
						            Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the Government shall accept work as promptly as practicable after delivery, and work shall be deemed accepted 90 days after delivery, unless accepted earlier.
(f) (f)
						            At any time during contract performance, but no later than 6 months (or such other time as may be specified in the contract) after acceptance of all of the end items (other than designs, drawings, or reports) to be delivered under the contract, the Government may require the Contractor to replace or correct work not meeting contract requirements. Time devoted to the replacement or correction of such work shall not be included in the computation of the above time period. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h) of this clause, the cost of replacement or correction shall be determined as specified in the Allowable Cost and Payment clause, but no additional fee shall be paid. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance work required to be replaced or corrected without disclosing the former requirement for replacement or correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken.
(g) (g)
(h) (h)
						            Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this clause, the Government may at any time require the Contractor to remedy by correction or replacement, without cost to the Government, any failure by the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this contract, if the failure is due to—
(i) (i)
						            This clause shall apply in the same manner to a corrected or replacement end item or components as to work originally delivered.
(j) (j)
						            The Contractor has no obligation or liability under the contract to correct or replace articles not meeting contract requirements at time of delivery, except as provided in this clause or as may otherwise be specified in the contract.
(k) (k)
						            Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the Contractor’s obligations to correct or replace Government-furnished property shall be governed by the clause pertaining to Government property.

