Heading: 52.232-27 Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts.
Text: (a) (a)
						            Invoice payments-
(b) (b)
Contract financing payments. If this contract provides for contract financing, the Government will make contract financing payments in accordance with the applicable contract financing clause.
(c) (c)
Subcontract clause requirements. The Contractor shall include in each subcontract for property or services (including a material supplier) for the purpose of performing this contract the following:
(d) (d)
Subcontract clause interpretation. The clauses required by paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be construed to impair the right of the Contractor or a subcontractor at any tier to negotiate, and to include in their subcontract, provisions that-
(e) (e)
Subcontractor withholding procedures. If a Contractor, after making a request for payment to the Government but before making a payment to a subcontractor for the subcontractor’s performance covered by the payment request, discovers that all or a portion of the payment otherwise due such subcontractor is subject to withholding from the subcontractor in accordance with the subcontract agreement, then the Contractor shall-
(f) (f)
						            Third-party deficiency reports-
(g) (g)
Written notice of subcontractor withholding. The Contractor shall issue a written notice of any withholding to a subcontractor (with a copy furnished to the Contracting Officer), specifying-
(h) (h)
Subcontractor payment entitlement. The Contractor may not request payment from the Government of any amount withheld or retained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause until such time as the Contractor has determined and certified to the Contracting Officer that the subcontractor is entitled to the payment of such amount.
(i) (i)
Prime-subcontractor disputes. A dispute between the Contractor and subcontractor relating to the amount or entitlement of a subcontractor to a payment or a late payment interest penalty under a clause included in the subcontract pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause does not constitute a dispute to which the Government is a party. The Government may not be interpleaded in any judicial or administrative proceeding involving such a dispute.
(j) (j)
Preservation of prime-subcontractor rights. Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this clause, this clause shall not limit or impair any contractual, administrative, or judicial remedies otherwise available to the Contractor or a subcontractor in the event of a dispute involving late payment or nonpayment by the Contractor or deficient subcontract performance or nonperformance by a subcontractor.
(k) (k)
Non-recourse for prime contractor interest penalty. The Contractor’s obligation to pay an interest penalty to a subcontractor pursuant to the clauses included in a subcontract under paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be construed to be an obligation of the Government for such interest penalty. A cost-reimbursement claim may not include any amount for reimbursement of such interest penalty.
(l) (l)
Overpayments. If the Contractor becomes aware of a duplicate contract financing or invoice payment or that the Government has otherwise overpaid on a contract financing or invoice payment, the Contractor shall-

