Heading: 52.247-51 Evaluation of Export Offers.
Text: (a) (a)
Port handling and ocean charges-other than DoD water terminals. Port handling and ocean charges in tariffs on file with the Bureau of Domestic Regulation, Federal Maritime Commission, or other appropriate regulatory authorities as of the date of bid opening (or the closing date specified for receipt of offers) and which will be effective for the date of the expected initial shipment will be used in the evaluation of offers.
(b) (b) F.o.b. origin, transportation under Government bill of lading.
(c) (c) F.o.b. port of loading with inspection and acceptance at origin.
(d) (d)
Ports of loading for evaluation of offers. Terminals to be used by the Government in evaluating offers are as follows: (For the information of the offerors, ocean and port handling charges are set forth if the terminal named is a DoD water terminal.)
(e) (e)
Ports of loading nominated by offeror. The ports of loading named in paragraph (d) of this clause are considered by the Government to be appropriate for this solicitation due to their compatibility with methods and facilities required to handle the cargo and types of vessels and to meet the required overseas delivery dates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, offerors may nominate additional ports of loading that the offeror considers to be more favorable to the Government. The Government may disregard such nominated ports if, after considering the quantity and nature of the supplies concerned, the requisite cargo handling capability, the available sailings on U.S.-flag vessels, and other pertinent transportation factors, it determines that use of the nominated ports is not compatible with the required overseas delivery date. United States Great Lakes ports of loading may be considered in the evaluation of offers only for those items
                  scheduled in this provision for delivery during the ice-free or navigable period as proclaimed by the authorities of the St. Lawrence Seaway (normal period is between April 15 and November 30 annually). All ports named, including those nominated by offerors and determined to be eligible as provided in this provision, shall be considered in evaluating all offers received in order to establish the lowest laid down cost to the Government at the overseas port of discharge. All determinations shall be based on availability of ocean services by U.S.-flag vessels only. Additional U.S. port(s) of loading nominated by offeror, if any:
(f) (f)
Price basis. Offeror shall indicate whether prices are based on-

