Heading: 52.232-12 Advance Payments.
Text: (a) (a)
Requirements for payment. Advance payments will be made under this contract (1) upon submission of properly certified invoices or vouchers by the Contractor, and approval by the administering office, ________ [insert the name of the office designated under agency procedures], or (2) under a letter of credit. The amount of the invoice or voucher submitted plus all advance payments previously approved shall not exceed $_______. If a letter of credit is used, the Contractor shall withdraw cash only when needed for disbursements acceptable under this contract and report cash disbursements and balances as required by the administering office. The Contractor shall apply terms similar to this clause to any advance payments to subcontractors.
(b) (b)
Special account. Until (1) the Contractor has liquidated all advance payments made under the contract and related interest charges and (2) the administering office has approved in writing the release of any funds due and payable to the Contractor, all advance payments and other payments under this
(c) (c)
Use of funds. The Contractor may withdraw funds from the special account only to pay for properly allocable, allowable, and reasonable costs for direct materials, direct labor, and indirect costs. Other withdrawals require approval in writing by the administering office. Determinations of whether costs are properly allocable, allowable, and reasonable shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, subject to any applicable subparts of part  31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(d) (d)
Repayment to the Government. At any time, the Contractor may repay all or any part of the funds advanced by the Government. Whenever requested in writing to do so by the administering office, the Contractor shall repay to the Government any part of unliquidated advance payments considered by the administering office to exceed the Contractor’s current requirements or the amount specified in paragraph (a) of this clause. If the Contractor fails to repay the amount requested by the administering office, all or any part of the unliquidated advance payments may be withdrawn from the special account by check signed by only the countersigning agent and applied to reduction of the unliquidated advance payments under this contract.
(e) (e)
Maximum payment. When the sum of all unliquidated advance payments, unpaid interest charges, and other payments exceed _____ percent of the contract price, the Government shall withhold further payments to the Contractor. On completion or termination of the contract, the Government shall deduct from the amount due to the Contractor all unliquidated advance payments and all interest charges payable. If previous payments to the Contractor exceed the amount due, the excess amount shall be paid to the Government on demand. For purposes of this paragraph, the contract price shall be considered to be the stated contract price of $_____, less any subsequent price reductions under the contract, plus (1) any price increases resulting from any terms of this contract for price redetermination or escalation, and (2) any other price increases that do not, in the aggregate, exceed $_____ [insert an amount not higher than 10 percent of the stated contract amount inserted in this paragraph]. Any payments withheld under this paragraph shall be applied to reduce the unliquidated advance payments. If full liquidation has been made, payments under the contract shall resume.
(f) (f)
						            Interest.
(g) (g)
Financial institution agreement. Before an advance payment is made under this contract, the Contractor shall transmit to the administering office, in the form prescribed by the administering office, an agreement in triplicate from the financial institution in which the special account is established, clearly setting forth the special character of the account and the responsibilities of the financial institution under the account. The Contractor shall select a financial institution that is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System, an "insured" bank within the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1811), or a credit union insured by the National Credit Union Administration.
(h) (h)
Lien on special bank account. The Government shall have a lien upon any balance in the special account paramount to all other liens. The Government lien shall secure the repayment of any advance payments made under this contract and any related interest charges.
(i) (i)
						            Lien on property under contract.
(j) (j)
						            Insurance.
(k) (k)
						            Default.
(l) (l)
Prohibition against assignment. Notwithstanding any other terms of this contract, the Contractor shall not assign this contract, any interest therein, or any claim under the contract to any party.
(m) (m)
Information and access to records. The Contractor shall furnish to the administering office (1) monthly or at other intervals as required, signed or certified balance sheets and profit and loss statements together with a report on the operation of the special account in the form prescribed by the administering office; and (2) if requested, other information concerning the operation of the Contractor’s business. The Contractor shall provide the authorized Government representatives proper facilities for inspection of the Contractor’s books, records, and accounts.
(n) (n)
Other security. The terms of this contract are considered to provide adequate security to the Government for advance payments; however, if the administering office considers the security inadequate, the Contractor shall furnish additional security satisfactory to the administering office, to the extent that the security is available.
(o) (o)
Representations. The Contractor represents the following:
(p) (p)
Covenants. To the extent the Government considers it necessary while any advance payments made under this contract remain outstanding, the Contractor, without the prior written consent of the administering office, shall not-

