Heading: 52.232-7 Payments under Time-and-Materials
and Labor-Hour Contracts.
Text: (a) (a)
Hourly rate.
(b) (b)
Materials.
(c) (c) If the
Contractor enters into any subcontract that requires consent under
the clause at 52.244-2,
Subcontracts, without obtaining such consent, the Government is
not required to reimburse the Contractor for any costs incurred
under the subcontract prior to the date the Contractor obtains the
required consent. Any reimbursement of subcontract costs incurred prior
to the date the consent was obtained shall be at the sole discretion
of the Government.
(d) (d)
Total
cost. It is estimated that the total cost to the Government
for the performance of this contract shall not exceed the ceiling
price set forth in the Schedule, and the Contractor agrees to use
its best efforts to perform the work specified in the Schedule and
all obligations under this contract within such ceiling price. If
at any time the Contractor has reason to believe that the hourly
rate payments and material costs that will accrue in performing
this contract in the next succeeding 30 days, if added to all other
payments and costs previously accrued, will exceed 85 percent of
the ceiling price in the Schedule, the Contractor shall notify the
Contracting Officer giving a revised estimate of the total price
to the Government for performing this contract with supporting reasons
and documentation. If at any time during performing this contract, the
Contractor has reason to believe that the total price to the Government
for performing this contract will be substantially greater or less
than the then stated ceiling price, the Contractor shall so notify
the Contracting Officer, giving a revised estimate of the total
price for performing this contract, with supporting reasons and
documentation. If at any time during performing this contract, the
Government has reason to believe that the work to be required in
performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than
the stated ceiling price, the Contracting Officer will so advise
the Contractor, giving the then revised estimate of the total amount
of effort to be required under the contract.
(e) (e)
Ceiling
price. The Government will not be obligated to pay the Contractor
any amount in excess of the ceiling price in the Schedule, and the
Contractor shall not be obligated to continue performance if to
do so would exceed the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule,
unless and until the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor
in writing that the ceiling price has been increased and specifies
in the notice a revised ceiling that shall constitute the ceiling
price for performance under this contract. When and to the extent
that the ceiling price set forth in the Schedule has been increased,
any hours expended and material costs incurred by the Contractor
in excess of the ceiling price before the increase shall be allowable to
the same extent as if the hours expended and material costs had
been incurred after the increase in the ceiling price.
(f) (f)
Audit.
At any time before final payment under this contract, the Contracting
Officer may request audit of the vouchers and supporting documentation.
Each payment previously made shall be subject to reduction to the
extent of amounts, on preceding vouchers, that are found by the
Contracting Officer or authorized representative not to have been
properly payable and shall also be subject to reduction for overpayments
or to increase for underpayments. Upon receipt and approval of the
voucher designated by the Contractor as the "completion voucher"
and supporting documentation, and upon compliance by the Contractor
with all terms of this contract (including, without limitation,
terms relating to patents and the terms of paragraph (g) of this
clause), the Government shall promptly pay any balance due the Contractor.
The completion voucher, and supporting documentation, shall be submitted
by the Contractor as promptly as practicable following completion
of the work under this contract, but in no event later than 120
days (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may approve
in writing) from the date of completion.
(g) (g)
Assignment
and Release of Claims. The Contractor, and each assignee under
an assignment entered into under this contract and in effect at
the time of final payment under this contract, shall execute and
deliver, at the time of and as a condition precedent to final payment
under this contract, a release discharging the Government, its officers,
agents, and employees of and from all liabilities, obligations,
and claims arising out of or under this contract, subject only to
the following exceptions:
(h) (h)
Interim
payments on contracts for other than services.
(i) (i)
Interim
payments on contracts for services. For interim payments made
prior to the final payment under this contract, the Government will
make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and
prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR part
1315.

