Heading: 52.249-5 Termination for Convenience of the Government (Educational and Other Nonprofit Institutions).
Text: (a) (a)
						            The Government may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or, from time to time, in part if the Contracting Officer determines that a termination is in the Government’s interest. The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a Notice of Termination specifying the extent of termination and the effective date.
(b) (b)
						            After receipt of a Notice of Termination and except as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall immediately proceed with the following obligations:
(c) (c)
						            The Contractor shall submit complete termination inventory schedules no later than 120 days from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 120-day period.
(d) (d)
						            After termination, the Contractor shall submit a final termination settlement proposal to the Contracting Officer in the form and with the certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall submit the proposal promptly but no later than 1 year from the effective date of termination unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 1-year period. If the Contractor fails to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined.
(e) (e)
						            Subject to paragraph (d) of this clause, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer may agree upon the whole or any part of the amount to be paid because of the termination. This amount may include reasonable cancellation charges incurred by the Contractor and any reasonable loss on outstanding commitments for personal services that the Contractor is unable to cancel; provided, that the Contractor exercised reasonable diligence in diverting such commitments to other operations. The contract shall be amended and the Contractor paid the agreed amount.
(f) (f)
						            The cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.3 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Contracts with Educational Institutions (defined as institutions of higher education in the OMB Uniform Guidance in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A, and 20 U.S.C. 1001), as in effect on the date of the contract, shall govern all costs claimed, agreed to, or determined under this clause; however, if the Contractor is not an educational institution and is a nonprofit organization (as defined in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200), the cost principles and procedures in subpart  31.7 of the FAR, Contracts with Nonprofit Organizations, shall apply; unless the Contractor is a nonprofit institution listed in the OMB Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, appendix VIII, as exempted from the cost principles in subpart E, in which case the cost principles at FAR 31.2 for commercial organizations shall apply to such contractor.
(g) (g)
						            The Government may, under the terms and conditions it prescribes, make partial payments against costs incurred by the Contractor for the terminated portion of this contract, if the Contracting Officer believes the total of these payments will not exceed the amount to which the Contractor will be entitled.
(h) (h)
						            The Contractor has the right of appeal as provided under the Disputes clause, except that if the Contractor failed to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time provided in paragraph (d) of this clause and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal.

