Heading: 52.212-1 
         Instructions to Offerors—Commercial
Products and Commercial Services.
Text: (a) (a)
North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code(s) and small business size standard(s) for this acquisition appear elsewhere in the solicitation. However, the small business size standard for a concern that submits an offer, other than on a construction or service acquisition, but proposes to furnish an end item that it did not itself manufacture, process, or produce is 500 employees, or 150 employees for information technology value-added resellers under NAICS code 541519, if the acquisition—
(b) (b)
Submission
of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified
in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this
solicitation. Offers may be submitted on the SF 1449, letterhead
stationery, or as otherwise specified in the solicitation. As a
minimum, offers must show—
(c) (c)
Period
for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices
in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for
receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an
addendum to the solicitation.
(d) (d)
Product
samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples
shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt
of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these
samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and
returned at the sender’s request and expense, unless they are destroyed
during preaward testing.
(e) (e)
Multiple
offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting
alternative terms and conditions, including alternative line items
(provided that the alternative line items are consistent with FAR subpart  4.10), or
alternative commercial
products or commercial services for satisfying the requirements
of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately.
(f) (f) Late
submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers.
(g) (g)
Contract
award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government
intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions
with offerors. Therefore, the offeror’s initial offer should contain
the offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint.
However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions
if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary.
The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in
the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive
informalities and minor irregularities in offers received.
(h) (h)
Multiple
awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items
of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific
limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may
not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government
reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less
than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the
offeror specifies otherwise in the offer.
(i) (i) Availability
of requirements documents cited in the solicitation.
(j) (j)
Unique
entity identifier.(Applies to all offers that exceed the micro-purchase
threshold, and offers at or below the micro-purchase threshold if
the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the
System for Award Management (SAM).) The Offeror shall enter, in
the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer,
the annotation "Unique Entity Identifier" followed by the unique
entity identifier that identifies the Offeror's name and address.
The Offeror also shall enter its Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT)
indicator, if applicable. The EFT indicator is a four-character suffix
to the unique entity identifier. The suffix is assigned at the discretion
of the Offeror to establish additional SAM records for identifying
alternative EFT accounts (see FAR subpart  32.11) for
the same entity. If the Offeror does not have a unique entity identifier,
it should contact the entity designated at www.sam.gov for
unique entity identifier establishment directly to obtain one. The
Offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract
when contacting the entity designated at www.sam.gov for
establishing the unique entity identifier.
(k) (k) [Reserved]
(l) (l)
Debriefing.
If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the
Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable:

