Heading: 52.232-16 Progress Payments.
Text: (a) (a) Computation of amounts.
(b) (b)
Liquidation.
Except as provided in the Termination for Convenience of the Government
clause, all progress payments shall be liquidated by deducting from
any payment under this contract, other than advance or progress
payments, the unliquidated progress payments, or 80 percent of the
amount invoiced, whichever is less. The Contractor shall repay to
the Government any amounts required by a retroactive price reduction,
after computing liquidations and payments on past invoices at the
reduced prices and adjusting the unliquidated progress payments
accordingly. The Government reserves the right to unilaterally change
from the ordinary liquidation rate to an alternate rate when deemed
appropriate for proper contract financing.
(c) (c)
Reduction
or suspension. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend
progress payments, increase the rate of liquidation, or take a combination
of these actions, after finding on substantial evidence any of the
following conditions:
(d) (d) Title.
(e) (e)
Risk
of loss. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government,
the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for property, the title
to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the
extent the Government expressly assumes the risk. The Contractor
shall repay the Government an amount equal to the unliquidated progress
payments that are based on costs allocable to property that is lost
(see 45.101).
(f) (f)
Control
of costs and property. The Contractor shall maintain an accounting
system and controls adequate for the proper administration of this
clause.
(g) (g) Reports,
forms, and access to records.
(h) (h)
Special
terms regarding default. If this contract is terminated under
the Default clause, (i) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to
the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments and
(ii) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of
progress payments, for all property for which the Government elects
not to require delivery under the Default clause. The Government
shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default
clause.
(i) (i) Reservations
of rights.
(j) (j)
Financing
payments to subcontractors. The financing payments to subcontractors
mentioned in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this clause shall be
all financing payments to subcontractors or divisions, if the following
conditions are met:
(k) (k)
Limitations
on undefinitized contract actions. Notwithstanding any other
progress payment provisions in this contract, progress payments
may not exceed 80 percent of costs incurred on work accomplished
under undefinitized contract actions. A "contract action" is any
action resulting in a contract, as defined in subpart  2.1, including
contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but
not including contract modifications that are within the scope and
under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications
issued pursuant to the Changes clause, or funding and other administrative changes.
This limitation shall apply to the costs incurred, as computed in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, and shall remain in
effect until the contract action is definitized. Costs incurred
which are subject to this limitation shall be segregated on Contractor
progress payment requests and invoices from those costs eligible
for higher progress payment rates. For purposes of progress payment
liquidation, as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, progress
payments for undefinitized contract actions shall be liquidated
at 80 percent of the amount invoiced for work performed under the
undefinitized contract action as long as the contract action remains
undefinitized. The amount of unliquidated progress payments for
undefinitized contract actions shall not exceed 80 percent of the
maximum liability of the Government under the undefinitized contract
action or such lower limit specified elsewhere in the contract.
Separate limits may be specified for separate actions.
(l) (l)
Due
date. The designated payment office will make progress payments
on the _________
[Contracting Officer insert date as prescribed by agency head;
if not prescribed, insert "30th"] day after the designated
billing office receives a proper progress payment request. In the
event that the Government requires an audit or other review of a
specific progress payment request to ensure compliance with the
terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office
is not compelled to make payment by the specified due date. Progress
payments are considered contract financing and are not subject to
the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act.
(m) (m)
Progress
payments under indefinite-delivery contracts. The Contractor
shall account for and submit progress payment requests under individual
orders as if the order constituted a separate contract, unless otherwise
specified in this contract.

