Heading: 52.243-7 Notification of Changes.
Text: (a) (a)
Definitions. "Contracting Officer," as used in this clause, does not include any representative of the Contracting Officer.
(b) (b)
Notice. The primary purpose of this clause is to obtain prompt reporting of Government conduct that the Contractor considers to constitute a change to this contract. Except for changes identified as such in writing and signed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall notify the Administrative Contracting Officer in writing promptly, within ______ (to be negotiated) calendar days from the date that the Contractor identifies any Government conduct (including actions, inactions, and written or oral communications) that the Contractor regards as a change to the contract terms and conditions. On the basis of the most accurate information available to the Contractor, the notice shall state-
(c) (c)
Continued performance. Following submission of the notice required by paragraph (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall diligently continue performance of this contract to the maximum extent possible in accordance with its terms and conditions as construed by the Contractor, unless the notice reports a direction of the Contracting Officer or a communication from a SAR of the Contracting Officer, in either of which events the Contractor shall continue performance; provided, however, that if the Contractor regards the direction or communication as a change as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, notice shall be given in the manner provided. All directions, communications, interpretations, orders and similar actions of the SAR shall be reduced to writing promptly and copies furnished to the Contractor and to the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer shall promptly countermand any action which exceeds the authority of the
                  SAR.
(d) (d)
Government response. The Contracting Officer shall promptly, within _____ (to be negotiated) calendar days after receipt of notice, respond to the notice in writing. In responding, the Contracting Officer shall either-
(e) (e) Equitable adjustments.

