Heading: 52.212-3 Offeror Representations and
         Certifications—Commercial Products and Commercial Services.
Text: (a) (a)
Definitions. As used in this
                  provision—
(b) (b)
(c) (c)
                   Offerors must complete the
                  following representations when the resulting contract is for
                  supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the
                  United States or its outlying areas, or when the contracting
                  officer has applied part  19 in accordance with 19.000(b)(1)(ii). Check all that
                  apply.
(d) (d)
                   Representations required to
                  implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-
(e) (e)
Certification Regarding Payments to
                  Influence Federal Transactions (31 http://uscode.house.gov/  U.S.C.
                  1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
                  $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies
                  to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal
                  appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any
                  person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer
                  or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or
                  employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on
                  his or her behalf in connection with the award of any
                  resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying
                  Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf
                  of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror
                  shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form
                  LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of
                  the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly
                  employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments
                  of reasonable compensation were made.
(f) (f)
Buy American Certificate.
                  (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation
                  (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American-Supplies,
                  is included in this solicitation.)
(g) (g)
(h) (h)
Certification Regarding
                  Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies
                  only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
                  simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to
                  the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or
                  any of its principals–
(i) (i)
Certification Regarding Knowledge
                  of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order
                  13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1)
                  any end products being acquired under this solicitation that
                  are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
                  Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless
                  excluded at 22.1503(b).]
(j) (j)
Place of manufacture. (Does not
                  apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the
                  acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical
                  purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of
                  manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in
                  response to this solicitation is predominantly-
(k) (k)
Certificates regarding exemptions
                  from the application of the Service Contract Labor
                  Standards (Certification by the offeror as to its
                  compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its
                  certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it
                  subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check
                  a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2)
                  applies.]
(l) (l)
Taxpayer Identification Number
                  (TIN) (
26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable
                  if the offeror is required to provide this information to the
                  SAM to be eligible for award.)
(m) (m)
Restricted business operations in
                  Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies
                  that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business
                  operations in Sudan.
(n) (n)
                   Prohibition on Contracting with
                  Inverted Domestic Corporations.
(o) (o)
                   Prohibition on contracting with
                  entities engaging in certain activities or transactions
                  relating to Iran.
(p) (p)
Ownership or Control of
                  Offeror. (Applies in all solicitations when there is a
                  requirement to be registered in SAM or a requirement to have a
                  unique entity identifier in the solicitation).
(q) (q)
Representation by Corporations
                  Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction
                  under any Federal Law.
(r) (r)
Predecessor of Offeror.
                  (Applies in all solicitations that include the provision at 52.204-16, Commercial and
                  Government Entity Code Reporting.)
(s) (s)
                   [Reserved].
(t) (t)
Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas
                  Emissions and Reduction Goals. Applies in all
                  solicitations that require offerors to register in SAM (12.301(d)(1)).
(u) (u)
(v) (v)
Covered Telecommunications
                  Equipment or Services-Representation. Section 889(a)(1)(A)
                  and section 889 (a)(1)(B) of Public Law 115-232.

