Heading: 52.222-41 Service Contract Labor Standards.
Text: (a) (a)
Definitions. As used in this clause—
(b) (b)
Applicability. This contract is subject to the following provisions and to all other applicable provisions of 41 U.S.C. chapter 67, Service Contract Labor Standards, and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR Part 4). This clause does not apply to contracts or subcontracts administratively exempted by the Secretary of Labor or exempted by 41 U.S.C. 6702, as interpreted in Subpart C of 29 CFR Part 4.
(c) (c)
						            Compensation.
(d) (d)
Obligation to furnish fringe benefits. The Contractor or subcontractor may discharge the obligation to furnish fringe benefits specified in the attachment or determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this clause by furnishing equivalent combinations of bona fide fringe benefits, or by making equivalent or differential cash payments, only in accordance with Subpart D of 29 CFR Part 4.
(e) (e)
Minimum wage. In the absence of a minimum wage attachment for this contract, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any person performing work under this contract (regardless of whether the person is a service employee) less than the minimum wage specified by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of1938. Nothing in this clause shall relieve the Contractor or any subcontractor of any other obligation under law or contract for payment of a higher wage to any employee.
(f) (f)
Successor contracts. If this contract succeeds a contract subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute under which substantially the same services were furnished in the same locality and service employees were paid wages and fringe benefits provided for in a collective bargaining agreement, in the absence of the minimum wage attachment for this contract setting forth such collectively bargained wage rates and fringe benefits, neither the Contractor nor any subcontractor under this contract shall pay any service employee performing any of the contract work (regardless of whether or not such employee was employed under the predecessor contract), less than the wages and fringe benefits provided for in such collective bargaining agreement, to which such employee would have been entitled if employed under the predecessor contract, including accrued wages and fringe benefits and any prospective increases in wages and fringe benefits provided for under such agreement. No Contractor or subcontractor under this contract may be relieved of the foregoing obligation unless the limitations of 29 CFR 4.1 b(b) apply or unless the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary’s authorized representative finds, after a hearing as provided in 29 CFR 4.10 that the wages and/or fringe benefits provided for in such agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, or determines, as provided in 29 CFR 4.11, that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm’s length negotiations. Where it is found in accordance with the review procedures provided in 29 CFR 4.10 and/or 4.11 and Parts6 and 8 that some or all of the wages and/or fringe benefits contained in a predecessor Contractor’s collective bargaining agreement are substantially at variance with those which prevail for services of a character similar in the locality, and/or that the collective bargaining agreement applicable to service employees employed under the predecessor contract was not entered into as a result of arm’s length negotiations, the Department will issue a new or revised wage determination setting forth the applicable wage rates and fringe benefits. Such determination shall be made part of the contract or subcontract, in accordance with the decision of the Administrator, the Administrative Law Judge, or the Administrative Review Board, as the case may be, irrespective of whether such issuance occurs prior to or after the award of a contract or subcontract (53 Comp. Gen. 401 (1973)). In the case of a wage determination issued solely as a result of a finding of substantial variance, such determination shall be effective as of the date of the final administrative decision.
(g) (g)
Notification to employees. The Contractor and any subcontractor under this contract shall notify each service employee commencing work on this contract of the minimum monetary wage and any fringe benefits required to be paid pursuant to this contract, or shall post the wage determination attached to this contract. The poster provided by the Department of Labor (Publication WH 1313) shall be posted in a prominent and accessible place at the work site. Failure to comply with this requirement is a violation of 41 U.S.C. 6703 and of this contract.
(h) (h)
Safe and sanitary working conditions. The Contractor or subcontractor shall not permit any part of the services called for by this contract to be performed in buildings or surroundings or under working conditions provided by or under the control or supervision of the Contractor or subcontractor which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to the health or safety of the service employees. The Contractor or subcontractor shall comply with the safety and health standards applied under 29 CFR Part 1925.
(i) (i)
Records.
(j) (j)
Pay periods. The Contractor shall unconditionally pay to each employee subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute all wages due free and clear and without subsequent deduction (except as otherwise provided by law or regulations, 29 CFR Part 4), rebate, or kickback on any account. These payments shall be made no later than one pay period following the end of the regular pay period in which the wages were earned or accrued. A pay period under this statute may not be of any duration longer than semi-monthly.
(k) (k)
Withholding of payments and termination of contract. The Contracting Officer shall withhold or cause to be withheld from the Government Prime Contractor under this or any other Government contract with the Prime Contractor such sums as an appropriate official of the Department of Labor requests or such sums as the Contracting Officer decides may be necessary to pay underpaid employees employed by the Contractor or subcontractor. In the event of failure to pay any employees subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute all or part of the wages or fringe benefits due under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, the Contracting Officer may, after authorization or by direction of the Department of Labor and written notification to the Contractor, take action to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until such violations have ceased. Additionally, any failure to comply with the requirements of this clause may be grounds for termination of the right to proceed with the contract work. In such event, the Government may enter into other contracts or arrangements for completion of the work, charging the Contractor in default with any additional cost.
(l) (l)
Subcontracts. The Contractor agrees to insert this clause in all subcontracts subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute.
(m) (m)
Collective bargaining agreements applicable to service employees. If wages to be paid or fringe benefits to be furnished any service employees employed by the Government Prime Contractor or any subcontractor under the contract are provided for in a collective bargaining agreement which is or will be effective during any period in which the contract is being performed, the Government Prime Contractor shall report such fact to the Contracting Officer, together with full information as to the application and accrual of such wages and fringe benefits, including any prospective increases, to service employees engaged in work on the contract, and a copy of the collective bargaining agreement. Such report shall be made upon commencing performance of the contract, in the case of collective bargaining agreements effective at such time, and in the case of such agreements or provisions or amendments thereof effective at a later time during the period of contract performance such agreements shall be reported promptly after negotiation thereof.
(n) (n)
Seniority list. Not less than 10 days prior to completion of any contract being performed at a Federal facility where service employees may be retained in the performance of the succeeding contract and subject to a wage determination which contains vacation or other benefit provisions based upon length of service with a Contractor (predecessor) or successor (29 CFR 4.173), the incumbent Prime Contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer a certified list of the names of all service employees on the Contractor’s or subcontractor’s payroll during the last month of contract performance. Such list shall also contain anniversary dates of employment on the contract either with the current or predecessor Contractors of each such service employee. The Contracting Officer shall turn over such list to the successor Contractor at the commencement of the succeeding contract.
(o) (o)
Rulings and interpretations. Rulings and interpretations of the Service Contract Labor Standards statute are contained in Regulations, 29 CFR Part 4.
(p) (p)
						            Contractor’s certification.
(q) (q)
Variations, tolerances, and exemptions involving employment. Notwithstanding any of the provisions in paragraphs (b) through (o) of this clause, the following employees may be employed in accordance with the following variations, tolerances, and exemptions, which the Secretary of Labor, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 6707 prior to its amendment by Pub.L.92-473, found to be necessary and proper in the public interest or to avoid serious impairment of the conduct of Government business:
(r) (r)
Apprentices. Apprentices will be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work they perform when they are employed and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship program registered with a State Apprenticeship Agency which is recognized by the U.S. Department of Labor, or if no such recognized agency exists in a State, under a program registered with the Office of Apprenticeship Training, Employer, and Labor Services (OATELS), U.S. Department of Labor. Any employee who is not registered as an apprentice in an approved program shall be paid the wage rate and fringe benefits contained in the applicable wage determination for the journeyman classification of work actually performed. The wage rates paid apprentices shall not be less than the wage rate for their level of progress set forth in the registered program, expressed as the appropriate percentage of the journeyman’s rate contained in the applicable wage determination. The allowable ratio of apprentices to journeymen employed on the contract work in any craft classification shall not be greater than the ratio permitted to the Contractor as to his entire work force under the registered program.
(s) (s)
Tips. An employee engaged in an occupation in which the employee customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in tips may have the amount of these tips credited by the employer against the minimum wage required by 41 U.S.C. 6703(1), in accordance with section 3(m) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and Regulations, 29 CFR Part 531. However, the amount of credit shall not exceed $1.34 per hour beginning January 1,1981. To use this provision-
(t) (t)
Disputes concerning labor standards. The U.S. Department of Labor has set forth in 29 CFR parts 4, 6, and 8 procedures for resolving disputes concerning labor standards requirements. Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with those procedures and not the Disputes clause of this contract. Disputes within the meaning of this clause include disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency, the U.S. Department of Labor, or the employees or their representatives.

