Heading: 52.222-62 Paid Sick Leave Under
Executive Order 13706.
Text: (a) (a)
Definitions.
As used in this clause (in accordance with 29 CFR 13.2)-
(b) (b) Executive
Order 13706.
(c) (c)
Paid
sick leave. The Contractor shall-
(d) (d) Contractors
may fulfill their obligations under E.O. 13706 and 29 CFR Part 13 jointly with other contractors
through a multiemployer plan, or may fulfill their obligations through
an individual fund, plan, or program (see 29
CFR 13.8).
(e) (e)
Withholding.
The Contracting Officer will, upon his or her own action or upon
written request of an authorized representative of the Department
of Labor, withhold or cause to be withheld from the Contractor under
this or any other Federal contract with the same Contractor, so
much of the accrued payments or advances as may be considered necessary
to pay employees the full amount owed to compensate for any violation
of the requirements of E.O. 13706, 29 CFR
Part 13, or this clause, including-
(f) (f) Payment
suspension/contract termination/contractor debarment.
(g) (g) The paid
sick leave required by E.O. 13706, 29 CFR
Part 13, and this clause is in addition to the Contractor's
obligations under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and
Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and the Contractor
may not receive credit toward its prevailing wage or fringe benefit
obligations under those Acts for any paid sick leave provided in satisfaction
of the requirements of E.O. 13706 and 29
CFR Part 13.
(h) (h) Nothing
in E.O. 13706 or 29 CFR Part 13 shall
excuse noncompliance with or supersede any applicable Federal or
State law, any applicable law or municipal ordinance, or a collective
bargaining agreement requiring greater paid sick leave or leave rights
than those established under E.O. 13706 and 29
CFR Part 13.
(i) (i) Recordkeeping.
(j) (j) Interference/discrimination.
(k) (k)
Notice.
The Contractor shall notify all employees performing work on or
in connection with a contract covered by the E.O. of the paid sick
leave requirements of E.O. 13706, 29 CFR
Part 13, and this clause by posting a notice provided by the
Department of Labor in a prominent and accessible place at the worksite
so it may be readily seen by employees. Contractors that customarily post
notices to employees electronically may post the notice electronically,
provided such electronic posting is displayed prominently on any
website that is maintained by the Contractor, whether external or
internal, and customarily used for notices to employees about terms
and conditions of employment.
(l) (l)
Disputes
concerning labor standards. Disputes related to the application
of E.O. 13706 to this contract shall not be subject to the general
disputes clause of the contract. Such disputes shall be resolved
in accordance with the procedures of the Department of Labor set
forth in 29 CFR Part 13. Disputes within
the meaning of this contract clause include disputes between the
Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and the contracting agency,
the Department of Labor, or the employees or their representatives.
(m) (m)
Subcontracts.
The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (m), in all subcontracts, regardless of dollar value,
that are subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute
or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and are to
be performed in whole or in part in the United States.

