Heading: 52.219-9 Small Business Subcontracting
Plan.
Text: (a) (a) This
clause does not apply to small business concerns.
(b) (b)
Definitions.
As used in this clause—
(c) (c)
(d) (d) The Offeror’s
subcontracting plan shall include the following:
(e) (e) In order
to effectively implement this plan to the extent consistent with
efficient contract performance, the Contractor shall perform the
following functions:
(f) (f) A master
subcontracting plan on a plant or division-wide basis that contains
all the elements required by paragraph (d) of this clause, except
goals, may be incorporated by reference as a part of the subcontracting
plan required of the Offeror by this clause; provided-
(g) (g) A commercial
plan is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors
furnishing commercial products
and commercial services. The commercial plan shall relate to
the offeror’s planned subcontracting generally, for both commercial
and Government business, rather than solely to the Government contract.
Once the Contractor’s commercial plan has been approved, the Government
will not require another subcontracting plan from the same Contractor
while the plan remains in effect, as long as the product or service
being provided by the Contractor continues to meet the definition
of a commercial product
or commercial service. A Contractor with a commercial plan
shall comply with the reporting requirements stated in paragraph
(d)(10) of this clause by submitting one SSR in eSRS for all contracts
covered by its commercial plan. A Contractor authorized to use a
commercial subcontracting plan shall include in its subcontracting
goals and in its SSR all indirect costs, with the exception of those
such as the following: Employee salaries and benefits; payments
for petty cash; depreciation; interest; income taxes; property taxes;
lease payments; bank fees; fines, claims, and dues; original equipment
manufacturer relationships during warranty periods (negotiated up
front with the product); utilities and other services purchased
from a municipality or an entity solely authorized by the municipality
to provide those services in a particular geographical region; and
philanthropic contributions. This report shall be acknowledged or
rejected in eSRS by the Contracting Officer who approved the plan.
This report shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of the
Government’s fiscal year.
(h) (h) Prior
compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting plans under
previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer
in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the
contract.
(i) (i) A contract
may have no more than one subcontracting plan. When a contract modification
exceeds the subcontracting plan threshold in FAR 19.702(a), or an option
is exercised, the goals of the existing subcontracting plan shall
be amended to reflect any new subcontracting opportunities. When
the goals in a subcontracting plan are amended, these goal changes do
not apply retroactively.
(j) (j) Subcontracting
plans are not required from subcontractors when the prime contract
contains the clause at FAR 52.212-5, Contract
Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive
Orders-Commercial Products
and Commercial Services, or when the subcontractor provides
a commercial product or
commercial service subject to the clause at FAR 52.244-6, Subcontracts
for Commercial Products
and Commercial Services, under a prime contract.
(k) (k) The failure
of the Contractor or subcontractor to comply in good faith with
(1) the clause of this contract entitled "Utilization Of Small Business
Concerns;" or (2) an approved plan required by this clause, shall
be a material breach of the contract and may be considered in any
past performance evaluation of the Contractor.
(l) (l) The Contractor
shall submit ISRs and SSRs using the web-based eSRS at http://www.esrs.gov.
Purchases from a corporation, company, or subdivision that is an
affiliate of the Contractor or subcontractor are not included in
these reports. Subcontract awards by affiliates shall be treated
as subcontract awards by the Contractor. Subcontract award data
reported by the Contractor and subcontractors shall be limited to
awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot
be taken for awards made to lower tier subcontractors, unless the
Contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small
business or small disadvantaged business credit from an ANC or Indian
tribe. Only subcontracts involving performance in the United States
or its outlying areas should be included in these reports with the
exception of subcontracts under a contract awarded by the State
Department or any other agency that has statutory or regulatory
authority to require subcontracting plans for subcontracts performed
outside the United States and its outlying areas.

