Heading: 52.222-27 Affirmative Action Compliance Requirements for Construction.
Text: (a) (a)
Definitions. As used in this clause-
(b) (b)
						            If the Contractor, or a subcontractor at any tier, subcontracts a portion of the work involving any construction trade, each such subcontract in excess of $10,000 shall include this clause and the Notice containing the goals for minority and female participation stated in the solicitation for this contract.
(c) (c)
						            If the Contractor is participating in a Hometown Plan (41 CFR 60-4) approved by the U.S. Department of Labor in a covered area, either individually or through an association, its affirmative action obligations on all work in the plan area (including goals) shall comply with the plan for those trades that have unions participating in the plan. Contractors must be able to demonstrate participation in, and compliance with, the provisions of the plan. Each Contractor or subcontractor participating in an approved plan is also required to comply with its obligations under the Equal Opportunity clause, and to make a good faith effort to achieve each goal under the plan in each trade in which it has employees. The overall good-faith performance by other Contractors or subcontractors toward a goal in an approved plan does not excuse any Contractor’s or subcontractor’s failure to make good-faith efforts to achieve the plan’s goals.
(d) (d)
						            The Contractor shall implement the affirmative action procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (16) of this clause. The goals stated in the solicitation for this contract are expressed as percentages of the total hours of employment and training of minority and female utilization that the Contractor should reasonably be able to achieve in each construction trade in which it has employees in the covered area. If the Contractor performs construction work in a geographical area located outside of the covered area, it shall apply the goals established for the geographical area where that work is actually performed. The Contractor is expected to make substantially uniform progress toward its goals in each craft.
(e) (e)
						            Neither the terms and conditions of any collective bargaining agreement, nor the failure by a union with which the Contractor has a collective bargaining agreement, to refer minorities or women shall excuse the Contractor’s obligations under this clause, Executive Order 11246, as amended, or the regulations thereunder.
(f) (f)
						            In order for the nonworking training hours of apprentices and trainees to be counted in meeting the goals, apprentices and trainees must be employed by the Contractor during the training period, and the Contractor must have made a commitment to employ the apprentices and trainees at the completion of their training, subject to the availability of employment opportunities. Trainees must be trained pursuant to training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor.
(g) (g)
						            The Contractor shall take affirmative action to ensure equal employment opportunity. The evaluation of the Contractor’s compliance with this clause shall be based upon its effort to achieve maximum results from its actions. The Contractor shall document these efforts fully and implement affirmative action steps at least as extensive as the following:
(h) (h)
						            The Contractor is encouraged to participate in voluntary associations that may assist in fulfilling one or more of the affirmative action obligations contained in paragraphs (g)(1) through (16) of this clause. The efforts of a contractor association, joint contractor-union, contractor-community, or similar group of which the contractor is a member and participant may be asserted as fulfilling one or more of its obligations under paragraphs (g)(1) through (16) of this clause, provided, the Contractor-
(i) (i)
						            A single goal for minorities and a separate single goal for women shall be established. The Contractor is required to provide equal employment opportunity and to take affirmative action for all minority groups, both male and female, and all women, both minority and nonminority. Consequently, the Contractor may be in violation of Executive Order 11246, as amended, if a particular group is employed in a substantially disparate manner.
(j) (j)
						            The Contractor shall not use goals or affirmative action standards to discriminate against any person because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin.
(k) (k)
						            The Contractor shall not enter into any subcontract with any person or firm debarred from Government contracts under Executive Order 11246, as amended.
(l) (l)
						            The Contractor shall carry out such sanctions and penalties for violation of this clause and of the Equal Opportunity clause, including suspension, termination, and cancellation of existing subcontracts, as may be imposed or ordered under Executive Order 11246, as amended, and its implementing regulations, by the OFCCP. Any failure to carry out these sanctions and penalties as ordered shall be a violation of this clause and Executive Order 11246, as amended.
(m) (m)
						            The Contractor in fulfilling its obligations under this clause shall implement affirmative action procedures at least as extensive as those prescribed in paragraph (g) of this clause, so as to achieve maximum results from its efforts to ensure equal employment opportunity. If the Contractor fails to comply with the requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, the implementing regulations, or this clause, the Deputy Assistant Secretary shall take action as prescribed in 41 CFR 60-4.8.
(n) (n)
						            The Contractor shall designate a responsible official to-
(o) (o)
						            Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a limitation upon the application of other laws that establish different standards of compliance or upon the requirements for the hiring of local or other area residents (e.g., those under the Public Works Employment Act of1977 and the Community Development BlockGrant Program).

