Heading: 52.250-1 Indemnification Under Public Law85-804.
Text: (a) (a)
						            "Contractor’s principal officials," as used in this clause, means directors, officers, managers, superintendents, or other representatives supervising or directing-
(b) (b)
						            Under Public Law85-804 (50 U.S.C. 1431-1435) and Executive Order 10789, as amended, and regardless of any other provisions of this contract, the Government shall, subject to the limitations contained in the other paragraphs of this clause, indemnify the Contractor against-
(c) (c)
						            This indemnification applies only to the extent that the claim, loss, or damage (1) arises out of or results from a risk defined in this contract as unusually hazardous or nuclear and (2)is not compensated for by insurance or otherwise. Any such claim, loss, or damage, to the extent that it is within the deductible amounts of the Contractor’s insurance, is not covered under this clause. If insurance coverage or other financial protection in effect on the date the approving official authorizes use of this clause is reduced, the Government’s liability under this clause shall not increase as a result.
(d) (d)
						            When the claim, loss, or damage is caused by willful misconduct or lack of good faith on the part of any of the Contractor’s principal officials, the Contractor shall not be indemnified for-
(e) (e)
						            With the Contracting Officer’s prior written approval, the Contractor may, in any subcontract under this contract, indemnify the subcontractor against any risk defined in this contract as unusually hazardous or nuclear. This indemnification shall provide, between the Contractor and the subcontractor, the same rights and duties, and the same provisions for notice, furnishing of evidence or proof, and Government settlement or defense of claims as this clause provides. The Contracting Officer may also approve indemnification of subcontractors at any lower tier, under the same terms and conditions. The Government shall indemnify the Contractor against liability to subcontractors incurred under subcontract provisions approved by the Contracting Officer.
(f) (f)
						            The rights and obligations of the parties under this clause shall survive this contract’s termination, expiration, or completion. The Government shall make no payment under this clause unless the agency head determines that the amount is just and reasonable. The Government may pay the Contractor or subcontractors, or may directly pay parties to whom the Contractor or subcontractors may be liable.
(g) (g)
						            The Contractor shall-
(h) (h)
						            The Government may direct, control, or assist in settling or defending any claim or action that may involve indemnification under this clause.

