Heading: 52.222-8 Payrolls and Basic
Records.
Text: (a) (a) Payrolls
and basic records relating thereto shall be maintained by the Contractor
during the course of the work and preserved for a period of 3 years
thereafter for all laborers and mechanics working at the site of
the work. Such records shall contain the name, address, and social
security number of each such worker, his or her correct classification,
hourly rates of wages paid (including rates of contributions or
costs anticipated for bona fide fringe benefits or cash equivalents thereof
of the types described in 40 U.S.C. 3141(2)(B) (Construction
Wage Rate Requirement statute)), daily and weekly number of hours
worked, deductions made, and actual wages paid. Whenever the Secretary
of Labor has found, under paragraph (d) of the clause entitled Construction
Wage Rate Requirements, that the wages of any laborer or mechanic include
the amount of any costs reasonably anticipated in providing benefits
under a plan or program described in 40 U.S.C. 3141(2)(B),
the Contractor shall maintain records which show that the commitment
to provide such benefits is enforceable, that the plan or program
is financially responsible, and that the plan or program has been
communicated in writing to the laborers or mechanics affected, and
records which show the costs anticipated or the actual cost incurred
in providing such benefits. Contractors employing apprentices or
trainees under approved programs shall maintain written evidence
of the registration of apprenticeship programs and certification
of trainee programs, the registration of the apprentices and trainees,
and the ratios and wage rates prescribed in the applicable programs.
(b) (b)
(c) (c) The Contractor
or subcontractor shall make the records required under paragraph
(a) of this clause available for inspection, copying, or transcription
by the Contracting Officer or authorized representatives of the
Contracting Officer or the Department of Labor. The Contractor or
subcontractor shall permit the Contracting Officer or representatives
of the Contracting Officer or the Department of Labor to interview
employees during working hours on the job. If the Contractor or subcontractor
fails to submit required records or to make them available, the
Contracting Officer may, after written notice to the Contractor,
take such action as may be necessary to cause the suspension of
any further payment. Furthermore, failure to submit the required
records upon request or to make such records available may be grounds
for debarment action pursuant to 29 CFR
5.12.

