Heading: 52.222-43 Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Labor Standards-Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts).
Text: (a) (a)
						            This clause applies to both contracts subject to area prevailing wage determinations and contracts subject to collective bargaining agreements.
(b) (b)
						            The Contractor warrants that the prices in this contract do not include any allowance for any contingency to cover increased costs for which adjustment is provided under this clause.
(c) (c)
						            The wage determination, issued under the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, (41 U.S.C. chapter 67), by the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, current on the anniversary date of a multiple year contract or the beginning of each renewal option period, shall apply to this contract. If no such determination has been made applicable to this contract, then the Federal minimum wage as established by section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of1938, as amended, (29 U.S.C. 206) current on the anniversary date of a multiple year contract or the beginning of each renewal option period, shall apply to this contract.
(d) (d)
						            The contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly labor rates will be adjusted to reflect the Contractor’s actual increase or decrease in applicable wages and fringe benefits to the extent that the increase is made to comply with or the decrease is voluntarily made by the Contractor as a result of:
(e) (e)
						            Any adjustment will be limited to increases or decreases in wages and fringe benefits as described in paragraph (d) of this clause, and the accompanying increases or decreases in social security and unemployment taxes and workers’ compensation insurance, but shall not otherwise include any amount for general and administrative costs, overhead, or profit.
(f) (f)
						            The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any increase claimed under this clause within 30 days after receiving a new wage determination unless this notification period is extended in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of any decrease under this clause, but nothing in the clause shall preclude the Government from asserting a claim within the period permitted by law. The notice shall contain a statement of the amount claimed and the change in fixed hourly rates (if this is a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract), and any relevant supporting data, including payroll records, that the Contracting Officer may reasonably require. Upon agreement of the parties, the contract price, contract unit price labor rates, or fixed hourly rates shall be modified in writing. The Contractor shall continue performance pending agreement on or determination of any such adjustment and its effective date.
(g) (g)
						            The Contracting Officer or an authorized representative shall have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and records of the Contractor until the expiration of 3 years after final payment under the contract.

