Heading: 52.222-55 
         Minimum Wages for Contractor
Workers Under Executive Order 14026.
Text: (a) (a) Definitions.
As used in this clause—
(b) (b) Executive
Order Minimum wage rate.
(c) (c)
(d) (d) Notice.
The Contractor shall notify all workers performing work on, or in
connection with, this contract of the applicable E.O. minimum wage
rate under this clause. With respect to workers covered by the Service
Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction)
statute, the Contractor may meet this requirement by posting, in
a prominent and accessible place at the worksite, the applicable
wage determination under those statutes. With respect to workers
whose wages are governed by the FLSA, the Contractor shall post
notice, utilizing the poster provided by the Administrator, which
can be obtained at 
                     www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/government-contracts, in
a prominent and accessible place at the worksite. Contractors that
customarily post notices to workers electronically may post the
notice electronically provided the electronic posting is displayed
prominently on any Web site that is maintained by the contractor,
whether external or internal, and customarily used for notices to
workers about terms and conditions of employment.
(e) (e) Payroll
Records.
(f) (f) Access.
The Contractor shall permit authorized representatives of the Administrator
to conduct investigations, including interviewing workers at the
worksite during normal working hours.
(g) (g) Withholding.
The Contracting Officer, upon his or her own action or upon written
request of the Administrator, will withhold funds or cause funds
to be withheld, from the Contractor under this or any other Federal
contract with the same Contractor, sufficient to pay workers the
full amount of wages required by this clause.
(h) (h) Disputes.
Department of Labor has set forth in 29 CFR 23.510, Disputes
concerning contractor compliance, the procedures for resolving disputes
concerning a contractor’s compliance with Department of Labor regulations
at 29 CFR part 23. Such
disputes shall be resolved in accordance with those procedures and
not the Disputes clause of this contract. These disputes include
disputes between the Contractor (or any of its subcontractors) and
the contracting agency, the Department of Labor, or the workers
or their representatives.
(i) (i) Antiretaliation.
The Contractor shall not discharge or in any other manner discriminate
against any worker because such worker has filed any complaint or
instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related
to compliance with the E.O. or this clause, or has testified or
is about to testify in any such proceeding.
(j) (j) Subcontractor
compliance. The Contractor is responsible for subcontractor compliance
with the requirements of this clause and may be held liable for
unpaid wages due subcontractor workers.
(k) (k) Subcontracts.
The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including
this paragraph (k) in all subcontracts, regardless of dollar value,
that are subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute
or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, and are to
be performed in whole or in part in the United States.

