Heading: 52.213-4 Terms and Conditions—Simplified
Acquisitions (Other Than Commercial Products and Commercial Services).
Text: (a) (a)
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   The
Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) clauses that are incorporated by reference:
(b) (b)
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   The Contractor
shall comply with the following FAR clauses, incorporated by reference,
unless the circumstances do not apply:
(c) (c)
FAR
52.252-2, Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998). This
contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the
same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also,
the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these
address(es):
(d) (d)
Inspection/Acceptance.
The Contractor shall tender for acceptance only those items that
conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves
the right to inspect or test any supplies or services that have
been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require repair
or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming
services at no increase in contract price. The Government must exercise
its postacceptance rights-
(e) (e)
Excusable
delays. The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance
is caused by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the
Contractor and without its fault or negligence, such as acts of
God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign
or contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions,
strikes, unusually severe weather, and delays of common carriers.
The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing as
soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any
excusable delay, setting forth the full particulars in connection
therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable dispatch,
and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer
of the cessation of such occurrence.
(f) (f)
Termination
for the Government's convenience. The Government reserves the
right to terminate this contract, or any part hereof, for its sole
convenience. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall
immediately stop all work hereunder and shall immediately cause
any and all of its suppliers and subcontractors to cease work. Subject
to the terms of this contract, the Contractor shall be paid a percentage
of the contract price reflecting the percentage of the work performed prior
to the notice of termination, plus reasonable charges that the Contractor
can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Government, using its
standard record keeping system, have resulted from the termination.
The Contractor shall not be required to comply with the cost accounting
standards or contract cost principles for this purpose. This paragraph
does not give the Government any right to audit the Contractor’s
records. The Contractor shall not be paid for any work performed
or costs incurred that reasonably could have been avoided.
(g) (g)
Termination
for cause. The Government may terminate this contract, or any
part hereof, for cause in the event of any default by the Contractor,
or if the Contractor fails to comply with any contract terms and
conditions, or fails to provide the Government, upon request, with
adequate assurances of future performance. In the event of termination
for cause, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor
for any amount for supplies or services not accepted, and the Contractor shall
be liable to the Government for any and all rights and remedies
provided by law. If it is determined that the Government improperly
terminated this contract for default, such termination shall be
deemed a termination for convenience.
(h) (h)
Warranty.
The Contractor warrants and implies that the items delivered hereunder
are merchantable and fit for use for the particular purpose described
in this contract.

