Heading: 52.229-2 North Carolina State and Local Sales and Use Tax.
Text: (a) (a)
						            "Materials," as used in this clause, means building materials, supplies, fixtures, and equipment that become a part of or are annexed to any building or structure erected, altered, or repaired under this contract.
(b) (b)
						            If this is a fixed-price contract, the contract price includes North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes to be paid on materials, notwithstanding any other provision of this contract. If this is a cost-reimbursement contract, any North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes paid by the Contractor on materials shall constitute an allowable cost under this contract.
(c) (c)
						            At the time specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the Contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer certified statements setting forth the cost of the materials purchased from each vendor and the amount of North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes paid. In the event the Contractor makes several purchases from the same vendor, the certified statement shall indicate the invoice numbers, the inclusive dates of the invoices, the total amount of the invoices, and the North Carolina State and local sales and use taxes paid. The statement shall also include the cost of any tangible personal property withdrawn from the Contractor’s warehouse stock and the amount of North Carolina State and local sales or use tax paid on this property by the Contractor. Any local sales or use taxes included in the Contractor’s statements must be shown separately from the State sales or use taxes. The Contractor shall furnish any additional information the Commissioner of Revenue of the State of North Carolina may require to substantiate a refund claim for sales or use taxes. The Contractor shall also obtain and furnish to the Contracting Officer similar certified statements by its subcontractors.
(d) (d)
						            If this contract is completed before the next October 1, the certified statements to be furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause shall be submitted within 60 days after completion. If this contract is not completed before the next October 1, the certified statements shall be submitted on or before November 30 of eachyear and shall cover taxes paid during the 12-month period that ended the preceding September 30.
(e) (e)
						            The certified statements to be furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause shall be in the following form:

