Heading: 6.305 Availability of the justification.
Text: (a) (a) The agency shall make publicly
                  available the justification required by 6.303-1 as required by 10 U.S.C. 3204(f) and 41 U.S.C. 3304(f). Except for the
                  circumstances in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the
                  justification shall be made publicly available within 14 days
                  after contract award.
(b) (b) In the case
of a contract award permitted under 6.302-2, the justification
shall be posted within 30 days after contract award.
(c) (c) In the case
of a brand name justification under 6.302-1(c), the justification
shall be posted with the solicitation (see 5.102(a)(6)).
(d) (d) The justifications
shall be made publicly available-
(e) (e) Contracting
officers shall carefully screen all justifications for contractor
proprietary data and remove all such data, and such references and
citations as are necessary to protect the proprietary data, before
making the justifications available for public inspection. Contracting
officers shall also be guided by the exemptions to disclosure of
information contained in the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and
the prohibitions against disclosure in 24.202 in determining
whether the justification, or portions of it, are exempt from posting.
Although the submitter notice process set out in EO 12600, entitled
"Predisclosure Notification Procedures for Confidential Commercial
Information," does not apply, if the justification appears to contain
proprietary data, the contracting officer should provide the contractor
that submitted the information an opportunity to review the justification
for proprietary data, before making the justification available
for public inspection, redacted as necessary. This process must
not prevent or delay the posting of the justification in accordance with
the timeframes required in paragraphs (a) through (c).
(f) (f) The requirements
of paragraphs (a) through (d) do not apply if posting the justification
would disclose the executive agency’s needs and disclosure of such
needs would compromise national security or create other security
risks.

