Heading: 7.103 Agency-head responsibilities.
Text: (a) (a) Promoting and providing for full and open competition (see part  6) or, when full and open competition is not required in accordance with part  6, for obtaining competition to the maximum extent practicable, with due regard to the nature of the supplies and services to be acquired (10 U.S.C. 3206(a)(1)
                     
                   and 41 U.S.C. 3306(a)(1)).
(b) (b) Encouraging offerors to supply commercial products or commercial services, or to the extent that commercial products suitable, to meet the agency needs are not available, nondevelopmental items in response to agency solicitations (10 U.S.C. 3453
                     
                   and 41 U.S.C. 3307).
(c) (c) Ensuring that acquisition planners address the requirement to specify needs, develop specifications, and to solicit offers in such a manner to promote and provide for full and open competition with due regard to the nature of the supplies and services to be acquired (10 U.S.C. 3206(a)(1)
                     
                   and 41 U.S.C. 3306(a)(1)). (See part  6 and 10.002.)
(d) (d) Ensuring
that acquisition planners document the file to support the selection
of the contract type in accordance with subpart 16.1.
(e) (e) Establishing
criteria and thresholds at which increasingly greater detail and
formality in the planning process is required as the acquisition
becomes more complex and costly, including for cost-reimbursement
and other high-risk contracts (e.g., other than firm-fixed-price
contracts) requiring a written acquisition plan. A written plan
shall be prepared for cost reimbursement and other high-risk contracts
other than firm-fixed-price contracts, although written plans may
be required for firm-fixed-price contracts as appropriate.
(f) (f) Ensuring
that the statement of work is closely aligned with performance outcomes
and cost estimates.
(g) (g) Writing
plans either on a systems basis, on an individual contract basis,
or on an individual order basis, depending upon the acquisition.
(h) (h) Ensuring
that the principles of this subpart are used, as appropriate, for
those acquisitions that do not require a written plan as well as
for those that do.
(i) (i) Designating
planners for acquisitions.
(j) (j) Reviewing
and approving acquisition plans and revisions to these plans to
ensure compliance with FAR requirements including 7.104 and part 16. For other than firm-fixed-price
contracts, ensuring that the plan is approved and signed at least
one level above the contracting officer.
(k) (k) Establishing
criteria and thresholds at which design-to-cost and life-cycle-cost
techniques will be used.
(l) (l) Establishing
standard acquisition plan formats, if desired, suitable to agency
needs.
(m) (m) Waiving
requirements of detail and formality, as necessary, in planning
for acquisitions having compressed delivery or performance schedules
because of the urgency of the need.
(n) (n) Assuring
that the contracting officer, prior to contracting, reviews:
(o) (o) Ensuring
that agency planners include use of the metric system of measurement
in proposed acquisitions in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 205b (see 11.002(b)) and agency
metric plans and guidelines.
(p) (p)
                  Ensuring that agency planners-
(q) (q) Ensuring
that acquisition planners specify needs and develop plans, drawings,
work statements, specifications, or other product or service requirements
(e.g., help desks, call centers, training services, and automated
self-service technical support) descriptions that address information
and communication technology (ICT) accessibility standards (see 36 CFR 1194.1)
in proposed acquisitions and that these standards are included in
requirements planning (see subpart  39.2).
(r) (r) Making
a determination, prior to issuance of a solicitation for advisory
and assistance services involving the analysis and evaluation of
proposals submitted in response to a solicitation, that a sufficient
number of covered personnel with the training and capability to
perform an evaluation and analysis of proposals submitted in response
to a solicitation are not readily available within the agency or
from another Federal agency in accordance with the guidelines at 37.204.
(s) (s) Ensuring
that no purchase request is initiated or contract entered into that
would result in the performance of an inherently governmental function
by a contractor and that all contracts or orders are adequately
managed so as to ensure effective official control over contract
or order performance.
(t) (t) Ensuring
that knowledge gained from prior acquisitions is used to further
refine requirements and acquisition strategies. For services, greater
use of performance-based acquisition methods should occur for follow-on
acquisitions.
(u) (u) Ensuring
that acquisition planners, to the maximum extent practicable-
(v) (v) Ensuring
that agency planners on information technology acquisitions comply
with the capital planning and investment control requirements in 40 U.S.C. 11312 and
OMB Circular A-130.
(w) (w) Ensuring
that agency planners on information technology acquisitions comply
with the information technology security requirements in the Federal
Information Security Management Act (44 U.S.C. 3544),
OMB’s implementing policies including Appendix III of OMB Circular
A-130, and guidance and standards from the Department of Commerce’s National
Institute of Standards and Technology.
(x) (x)
                  Ensuring that agency planners use project labor agreements when required (see subpart 22.5 and 36.104 Policy.).
(y) (y) Ensuring
that contracting officers consult the Disaster Response Registry
via https://www.sam.gov, Search Records, Advanced
Search, Disaster Response Registry Search as a part of acquisition
planning for debris removal, distribution of supplies, reconstruction,
and other disaster or emergency relief activities inside the United
States and outlying areas. (See 26.205).

