Heading: 8.404 Use of Federal Supply Schedules.
Text: (a) (a)
General. parts  13 (except 13.303-2(c)(3)), 14, 15, and 19 (except for the requirements at 19.102(b)(3) and 19.202-1(e)(1)(iii)) do not apply to BPAs or orders placed against Federal Supply Schedules contracts (but see 8.405-5). BPAs and orders placed against a MAS, using the procedures in this subpart, are considered to be issued using full and open competition (see 6.102(d)(3)). Therefore, when establishing a BPA (as authorized by 13.303-2(c)(3)), or placing orders under Federal Supply Schedule contracts using the procedures of 8.405, ordering activities shall not seek competition outside of the Federal Supply Schedules or synopsize the requirement; but see paragraph (g) of this section.
(b) (b)
(c) (c)
Acquisition planning. Orders placed under a Federal Supply Schedule contract-
(d) (d)
Pricing. Supplies offered on the schedule are listed at fixed prices. Services offered on the schedule are priced either at hourly rates, or at a fixed price for performance of a specific task (e.g., installation, maintenance, and repair). GSA has already determined the prices of supplies and fixed-price services, and rates for services offered at hourly rates, under schedule contracts to be fair and reasonable. Therefore, ordering activities are not required to make a separate determination of fair and reasonable pricing, except for a price evaluation as required by 8.405-2(d). By placing an order against a schedule contract using the procedures in 8.405, the ordering activity has concluded that the order represents the best value (as defined in FAR 2.101) and results in the lowest overall cost alternative (considering price, special features, administrative costs, etc.) to meet the Government’s needs. Although GSA has already negotiated fair and reasonable pricing, ordering activities may seek additional discounts before placing an order (see 8.405-4).
(e) (e)
                  
						             The procedures under subpart 33.1 are applicable to the issuance of an order or the establishment of a BPA against a schedule contract.
(f) (f)
                  
						             If the ordering activity issues an RFQ, the ordering activity shall provide the RFQ to any schedule contractor that requests a copy of it.
(g) (g)
(h) (h)
                  
						             Type-of-order preference for services.
(i) (i)
                  
						             Ensure that service contractor reporting requirements are met in accordance with subpart  4.17, Service Contracts Inventory.
(j) (j)
                  
						             Line items. When placing orders or establishing BPAs, ordering activities shall reference the special item number and the corresponding line or subline item awarded (established per 4.1005) in the schedule. If an ordering activity contracting officer adds an item not on the Federal Supply Schedule in accordance with 8.402(f), establish a new line item in accordance with subpart  4.10.

