Heading: 9.104-3 Application of standards.
Text: (a) (a)
Ability to obtain resources.
Except to the extent that a prospective contractor has sufficient
resources or proposes to perform the contract by subcontracting,
the contracting officer shall require acceptable evidence of the
prospective contractor’s ability to obtain required resources (see 9.104-1(a), (e), and (f)).
Acceptable evidence normally consists of a commitment or explicit
arrangement, that will be in existence at the time of contract award,
to rent, purchase, or otherwise acquire the needed facilities, equipment,
other resources, or personnel. Consideration of a prime contractor’s
compliance with limitations on subcontracting shall take into account
the time period covered by the contract base period or quantities plus
option periods or quantities, if such options are considered when
evaluating offers for award.
(b) (b)
Satisfactory performance record. A prospective
                  contractor that is or recently has been seriously deficient in
                  contract performance shall be presumed to be nonresponsible,
                  unless the contracting officer determines that the
                  circumstances were properly beyond the contractor’s control,
                  or that the contractor has taken appropriate corrective
                  action. Past failure to apply sufficient tenacity and
                  perseverance to perform acceptably is strong evidence of
                  nonresponsibility. Failure to meet the quality requirements of
                  the contract is a significant factor to consider in
                  determining satisfactory performance. The contracting officer
                  shall consider the number of contracts involved and the extent
                  of deficient performance in each contract when making this
                  determination. If the pending contract requires a
                  subcontracting plan pursuant to subpart  19.7, The Small
                  Business Subcontracting Program, the contracting officer shall
                  also consider the prospective contractor’s compliance with
                  subcontracting plans under recent contracts.
(c) (c)
(d) (d)

